---
title: Add docs
date: 2023-12-30 17:00:58 +0100
categories: [jekyll]
tags: [bash]
---

## Bonus: Why use a wrapper for IndexedDB
IndexedDB is a low level API that requires significant setup before use, which can be particularly painful for storing simple data. Unlike most modern promise-based APIs, it is event based. Promise wrappers like idb for IndexedDB hide some of the powerful features but more importantly, hide the complex machinery (e.g. transactions, schema versioning) that comes with the IndexedDB library.

## Conclusion
Gone are the days of limited storage and prompting the user to store more and more data. Sites can store effectively all of the resources and data they need to run. Using the StorageManager API you can determine how much is available to you, and how much you've used. And with persistent storage, unless the user removes it, you can protect it from eviction.

## Additional resources
IndexedDB Best Practices
Chrome Web Storage and Quota Concepts
Thanks
Special thanks to Jarryd Goodman, Phil Walton, Eiji Kitamura, Daniel Murphy, Darwin Huang, Josh Bell, Marijn Kruisselbrink, and Victor Costan for reviewing this article. Thanks to Eiji Kitamura, Addy Osmani, and Marc Cohen who wrote the original articles that this is based on. Eiji wrote a helpful tool called Browser Storage Abuser that was useful in validating current behavior. It allows you to store as much data as possible and see the storage limits on your browser. Thanks to Francois Beaufort who did the digging into Safari to figure out its storage limits.

## The hero image is by Guillaume Bolduc on Unsplash.
