---
title: English
date: 2024-08-23 18:59:52 +0200
categories: []
tags: []
---

RISE: There has been a rise in house prices.
SOLUTION: We hope to find a solution to this problem.
DISTANCE: What’s the distance between the two cities?
CONVERSATION: I overheard their conversation about the party.
DEBATE: I listened to a fascinating debate on gun control.
DIFFERENCE: What’s the difference between the two models?
DEMAND: The demand for oil has increased significantly.
ARGUMENT: Mum and I had an argument about homework.
CONTACT: They don’t have much contact with their father.
INTEREST: He has always shown an interest in sailing.
BELIEF: His belief in the kindness of others is admirable.
LACK: The lack of rain has affected many farmers.
ARTICLE: I recently read an article about Spanish history.
INCREASE: There has been a sharp increase in house prices.
REACTION: The patient had a severe reaction to the drugs.
ARTICLE: I read an interesting article on evolution.
ARGUMENT: Sam had an argument with his sister.
RELATIONSHIP: The relationship between the two boys changed.
MATTER: What is the matter with Tom?
SUCCESS: We’re happy about Tom’s success in his exams.
PHOTO: He keeps a photo of his family in his wallet.
CHANGE: They’re concerned by the change in his behaviour.
NEED: There really is no need for these precautions.
ADVANTAGE: You must take advantage of this opportunity.
CONFUSION: There was confusion about the new regulations.
INFORMATION: We need some information on the client.
LINK: The link between the two suspects is obvious.
RECIPE: You really must give me the recipe for this cake.
ADDICTION: His addiction to these pills is concerning.
POSSIBILITY: There is a strong possibility of rain this afternoon.
BAN: There has been a ban on cars in the city centre.
CONNECTION: I missed my connection between the two flights.
CURE: Sadly, there is no cure for this disease.
CHANCE: He has little chance of passing the exam.
PROMISE: He made a promise to his parents.
CONCERN: There was a lot of concern about the matter.
APPOINTMENT: I have an appointment with the doctor.
INVITATION: He sent us an invitation to his wedding.
USE: I have no use for a bicycle.
AGREEMENT: We came to an agreement on the subject.
ROOM: We have room for one more person in the car.
THREAT: Increasing temperatures pose a threat to wildlife.
BOND: The bond between Jeremy and his son is special.
DECISION: We finally reached a decision on the project.
DECREASE: There was a decrease in the number of students.
REPORT: Peter is writing a report on gun crime.
RESPECT: I have little respect for our new manager.
COST: The cost of living has risen in the past year.
RELATIONSHIP: We have a good relationship with our father.
CAUSE: The cause of the explosion is not yet known.
GAP: There were wide gaps between the floorboards.
DISCUSSION: We had an interesting discussion about the issue.
DIFFICULTY: Joe is having difficulty with his homework.
STORY: He told me a story about a prince and a frog.
ATTENTION: You must pay attention to the teacher.


Work with development teams and product managers to ideate software solutions. 
Design client-side and server-side architecture. 
Build the front-end through appealing visual design. 
Develop and manage well-functioning databases and applications. 
Write effective APIs. 
Test software to ensure responsiveness and efficiency. 
Troubleshoot, debug and upgrade software. 
Create security and data protection settings. 
Build features and applications with a mobile responsive design. 
Write technical documentation. 
Work with data scientists and analysts to improve software. 
We believe that you’ll enjoy this role if you have 

Proactive problem-solving approach 
Excellent communication and teamwork skills 
Great attention to detail 
Familiarity with Agile methodologies 
What you’ll need to be successful 

  As must-have: 

At least 5 years working as a Full Stack Developer 
Proven track record in development of production ready web applications and APIs. 
Frontend experience and skills: React (around 3 years of experience), design (SCSS) and able to create reusable elements. 
Backend experience and skills: C#, .NET, Entity Framework (> 2 years of experience) 
Good understanding of database systems (e.g. PostreSQL) and proficient SQL  
Experience with MS Azure or other cloud technologies. 
Fluent English 



Cover letter
March 08, 2022
I am writing to express my interest for the web developer position, or software engineer.
I have fifteen years of experience in programming and it's not just my profession that allows me to
earn money, it's a profession that I love and do it with interest and pleasure.
My love for programming began with the fact that at my longest job there was a lot of routine work
that did not give me any development and which I was not interested in doing. And I began to write
programs in order to save myself from this routine work and reduce the time to complete the work.
At first, only for myself, then colleagues began to contact me, and then my programs were noted by
the company's management. They gave me the opportunity to create some internal programs for our
large company which had fourteen branches across the country. It were: document flow app,
construction organization budgeting app, visitors registration app, internal company website and
app for processing of market data (included in Manage Quality Standards of company).
Using these programs has given my company several benefits: the time for collecting information of
all company branches, the quality of the information received, the possibilities for analysis have
improved significantly and beside that the company saved money and time on the purchase of
software products , their adaptation and further maintenance.
Each of my new jobs gave me a new useful experience: experience in an international company,
experience in writing new programs and a new level of information. For all this I am grateful to
each of my works.
And now I am looking for a new job with exciting opportunity appears to be a wonderful fit with
my professional experience, personal interests, and career goals and will give me a new practice and
knowledge.
Sincerely,

 I wrote microservices that played a key role in data exchange between mobile applications and banking systems
received requests and transmitted data related to the issuance of loans to bank clients; information on payments on payment schedules of client data

Worked with databases such as MS SQL,  PostgreSQL, OracleDB,
and MongoDB. Besides, has solid experience in distributed systems architecture, multithreading, algorithms,
data structures, and performance optimizations.  I always following modern
development methodologies, including Agile and Scrum. Can act both as a communicative strong team player
and an independent team member who enables processes, investigates, and provides solutions for various tasks.
Tested software to ensure  efficiency. 
Build features
Worked with data  analysts, resolved bug-fixing incidents, improved the test coverage;
Implemented unit tests using xUnit, Substitute;
Provided planning and estimation using Jira;

Team communication

We got together in the morning and discussed all the tasks that we have at that moment.
Each employee gave a short report.
In general, it was boring and useless, because what I was talking about was not
 interesting to my colleagues a priori, and I didn’t understand what they were talking about.
During the day we corresponded or called each other and only then could we find out anything.
I got the impression that the tester should have been involved from the beginning of the formulation of the problem.
Ultimately, it was the bureaucratic tasks that mattered. This is inevitable when so many people are involved in that type of work.
They need to do something. I really love Parkinson’s book and was convinced at meetings  that it is so, as Parkinson describes it.

Many are excellent programmers and generally pleasant guys to talk to.

I didn’t understand why you should make descriptions in html format in confluence if you can do it in json, or even better, right in the class in the models folder in the project. Select it into a separate project and share it. And let data analist write what is int and what is not.



The requirements appear to be a fit with my professional experience.  I have worked as a software developer for 10+ years.
I would appreciate the opportunity to interview me. I enthusiastically look forward to hearing from you soon.

I worked for more than 10 years in one company in different positions, mainly as a technical specialist
Usually, over the course of such years, the attitude towards you changes.
This was  a case when an employee besides of own responsibility can do whatever he wants after aprovals with  my supervisor.
I worked in contact with the accounting department and the personnel department. 
I preferred automating processes in myself and in the department and the DDD of which was clear. The main activity of company  was building housing for employees of Railway corporation and developing of commercial real estate.
After that I worked in several companies in the banking sector, issuing loans in two large companies exclusively engaged in the creation of software
the other is purely for software.


In my last job, I was developing pages in react
wpf library template allows you to accomplish this task
used broadly jquery before and some server components
now I am  in the process of developing I plan to transfer an idea that I have been postponing for a long time to react
it needs to be implemented
although I wrote that I want to be a frontend, but I must admit that for a long time I was engaged in  server component developing

What stack of framework do you use?


Min. 5 years of experience of .NET and C#
Very good understanding of clean code, clean architecture, and SOLID principles
Familiarity with CI/CD tools (eg. Azure DevOps, GitHub), Git, and Terraform
Excellent understanding of SQL, Entity Framework/NHibernate
Familiarity with at least one message broker solution (eg. Azure Service Bus, AWS SQS, RabbitMQ, Kafka)
Proficiency in building REST APIs at an advanced level
Very good knowledge of web app security concepts
Understanding of OAuth and OpenID Connect (including at least one authentication solution like IdentityServer, Okta, Keycloak)
Familiarity with containerization using Docker and Kubernetes (AWS EKS or Azure AKS)
Knowledge of architectural concepts e.g. Microservices, Modulat monoliths, DDD, CQRS, EventSourcing, Cloud solutions
Ability to write clear and effective unit and integration tests
Good knowledge of algorithms
Experience in bootstrapping small and medium-sized projects
Independence in problem-solving and ability to propose complete solutions for average complicated tasks
Communicative English


Cover letter
March 08, 2022
I am writing to express my interest for the web developer position, or software engineer.
I have fifteen years of experience in programming and it's not just my profession that allows me to
earn money, it's a profession that I love and do it with interest.
My love for programming began with the fact that at my longest job there was a lot of routine work
that did not give me any development and which I was not interested in doing. And I began to write
programs in order to save myself from this routine work and reduce the time to complete the work.
At first, only for myself, then colleagues began to contact me, and then my programs were noted by
the company's management. They gave me the opportunity to create some internal programs for our
large company which had fourteen branches across the country. It were: document flow app,
construction organization budgeting app, visitors registration app, internal company website and
app for processing of market data (included in Manage Quality Standards of company).
Using these programs has given my company several benefits: the time for collecting information of
all company branches, the quality of the information received, the possibilities for analysis have
improved significantly and beside that the company saved money and time on the purchase of
software products , their adaptation and further maintenance.
Each of my new jobs gave me a new useful experience: experience in an international company,
experience in writing new programs and a new level of information. For all this I am grateful to
each of my works.


Sincerely,
Dmitry Kosarev



Summary
Application developer;
Base language - C#.
If necessary, I can write for Node.js (React, Angular and Vue), in Typescript , Go and Python, parse code in Java,
C, C++.
Used
- MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MongoDB
- Docker, Azure, Atlassian Jira and Confluence
I work in JetBrain Rider, VS and VS code as appropriate;
User of Ubuntu (bash, grep, curl, etc.) and Windows (cmd, powershell);
Experience

Applying features based on extracting and analyzing customer requirements.
Used WebServices, Postgres, MongoDB, XUnit
• DDD approach
• Maintenance using scripting languages, management tools
• Planning, designing, and implementing microservice architecture
• Understanding of current web technologies and programming practices through continuing education,
reading
Senior Developer

• Apps for operations for issuing loans to individuals
Successfully developed Web API Net Core v.3.1- 6 microservices, integrated with mobile
applications, internal banking systems using gRPC framework,, SOAP protocol, Rest
• Re-engineered modules to rely on a centralized library to optimize
performance.
• Use Atlassian Jira and Confluence for logging defects and seeing them through to resolution
• Improved test coverage with XUnit library.
• Applied Mediator pattern.
Senior Software Engineer

• Developed the WPF application providing interaction via a COM port using the Modbus protocol with
an interrogator - a device for studying the state of building structures by an optical method.
• Used WPF, C# NModBus library, and ZedGraph to display graphs.
• Designed and developed reusable software components.
Web Developer

• Support and refine projects SharePoint Online, Powerapps, SharePoint 2013.
• Optimized customer resources and reduced turnaround time by 30%.
• Developed a library for testing and maintenance of projects. The process of incident resolution was
accelerated.

• Developed the project for issuing bank guarantees (MVC project) using Orchard CMS and
integrated with ELMA business process management systems (www.elma-bpm.ru).
• Added new features, The program created was successfully implemented and the customer placed
new orders. Our company received new opportunities for business expansion.
• Improved user interfaces.

Head of the Application Software division of the IT Department
• Support for the application of project finance in the construction industry.
• Helped to increase the accuracy of the reporting systems
• Delivered configuration management tools to track server settings.

During my work, I have developed the following programs:
• Document flow app;
• Construction organization budgeting app;
• Job survey app;
• Visitors registration app;
• Internal company website;
• App for processing of market data (including Manage Quality Standards of the company);
Results of work:
The time for collecting information from all branches of the company, the quality of the information
received, and the possibilities for analysis have improved significantly