---
title: Part2
date: 2024-10-25 08:00:44 +0200
categories: []
tags: []
---
ʃiː lɪəd ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ðə ˈbɒtl̩ hɜː(ɑː) raɪt hænd wɒz ˈɡræpl̩ɪŋ wɪð ʌnˈstedɪli. “Ain’tiː juː ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ˈvelmə?”
“ɪz ʃiː wʌn əv ðiːz?”
θɪk ˈkʌnɪŋ ˈpleɪd ɒn hɜː(ɑː) feɪs, həd nəʊ fʌn ðeə(ɑː) ənd ˈwent ˈsʌmweə(ɑː) els.

 You couldn’t tell from the photographs. I looked them over casually, without interest and tied the tape again.
“I wouldn’t know any of these,” I said. “Why am I looking at them?”
She leered over the bottle her right hand was grappling with unsteadily. “Ain’t you looking for Velma?”
“Is she one of these?”
Thick cunning played on her face, had no fun there and went somewhere else.

 “Ain’tiː juː ˈɡɒt ə ˈfəʊtəʊ əv hɜː(ɑː)—frəm hɜː(ɑː) fəʊks?”
ðæt ˈtrʌbl̩d hɜː(ɑː). ˈevri ɡɜːl hæz ə ˈfəʊtəʊ ˈsʌmweə(ɑː), ɪf ɪt’ˈes ˈəʊnli ɪn ʃɔːt ˈdresɪz wɪð ə baʊ ɪn hɜː(ɑː) heə(ɑː). ˈaɪ ʃʊd həv həd ɪt.
“ˈaɪ ain’tiː beginnin’ tuː ˈlaɪk juː əˈɡen,” ðə ˈwʊmən ˈsed ˈɔːlməʊst ˈkwaɪətli.
ˈaɪ stʊd ʌp wɪð maɪ ˈɡlɑːs ənd ˈwent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ənd ˈpʊt ɪt daʊn bɪˈsaɪd hɜːz ɒn ðə end ˈteɪbl̩.
“pɔː(ɑː) miː ə drɪŋk bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) juː kɪl ðə ˈbɒtl̩.

 “Ain’t you got a photo of her—from her folks?”
That troubled her. Every girl has a photo somewhere, if it’s only in short dresses with a bow in her hair. I should have had it.
“I ain’t beginnin’ to like you again,” the woman said almost quietly.
I stood up with my glass and went over and put it down beside hers on the end table.
“Pour me a drink before you kill the bottle.

”
ʃiː riːtʃt fɔː(ɑː) ðə ˈɡlɑːs ənd ˈaɪ tɜːnd ənd ˈwɔːkt ˈswɪftli θruː ðə skweə(ɑː) ɑːtʃ ˈɪntə ðə ˈdaɪnɪŋ ruːm, ˈɪntə ðə hɔːl, ˈɪntə ðə ˈklʌtəd ˈbedruːm wɪð ðə ˈəʊpən trʌŋk ənd ðə spɪld treɪ. ə vɔɪs ˈʃaʊtɪd bɪˈhaɪnd miː. ˈaɪ plʌndʒd əˈhed daʊn ˈɪntə ðə raɪt saɪd əv ðə trʌŋk, felt ən ˈenvələʊp ənd ˈbrɔːt ɪt ʌp ˈswɪftli.

”
She reached for the glass and I turned and walked swiftly through the square arch into the dining room, into the hall, into the cluttered bedroom with the open trunk and the spilled tray. A voice shouted behind me. I plunged ahead down into the right side of the trunk, felt an envelope and brought it up swiftly.


ʃiː wɒz ˈaʊt əv hɜː(ɑː) tʃeə(ɑː) wen ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt ˈbæk tuː ðə ˈlɪvɪŋ ruːm, bʌt ʃiː həd ˈəʊnli ˈteɪkən ˈtuː ɔː(ɑː) θriː steps. hɜː(ɑː) aɪz həd ə pɪˈkjuːlɪə(r) glassiness. ə ˈmɜːdərəs glassiness.
“sɪt daʊn,” ˈaɪ snɑːld ət hɜː(ɑː) dɪˈlɪbərətli. “juː’riː nɒt ˈdiːlɪŋ wɪð ə ˈsɪmpl̩-ˈmaɪndɪd lʌɡ ˈlaɪk muːs məˌlɔɪ ðɪs ˈtaɪm.”
ɪt wɒz ə ʃɒt mɔː(ɑː) ɔː(ɑː) les ɪn ðə dɑːk, ənd ɪt didn’tiː hɪt ˈeniθɪŋ.


She was out of her chair when I got back to the living room, but she had only taken two or three steps. Her eyes had a peculiar glassiness. A murderous glassiness.
“Sit down,” I snarled at her deliberately. “You’re not dealing with a simple-minded lug like Moose Malloy this time.”
It was a shot more or less in the dark, and it didn’t hit anything.

 ʃiː blɪŋkt twaɪs ənd ˈtraɪd tuː lɪft hɜː(ɑː) nəʊz wɪð hɜː(ɑː) ˈʌpə(ɑː) lɪp. sʌm ˈdɜːti tiːθ ʃəʊd ɪn ə ˈræbɪt lɪə(r).
“muːs? ðə muːs? ˈwɒt əˈbaʊt hɪm?” ʃiː ɡʌlpt.
“hiː’ˈes luːs,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ˈaʊt əv dʒeɪl. hiː’ˈes ˈwɒndərɪŋ, wɪð ə ˈfɔːti-faɪv ɡʌn ɪn hɪz hænd. hiː kɪld ə ˈnɪɡə(ɑː) ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ɒn ˈsentrəl ðɪs ˈmɔːnɪŋ bɪˈkɒz hiː wouldn’tiː tel hɪm weə(ɑː) ˈvelmə wɒz.

 She blinked twice and tried to lift her nose with her upper lip. Some dirty teeth showed in a rabbit leer.
“Moose? The Moose? What about him?” she gulped.
“He’s loose,” I said. “Out of jail. He’s wandering, with a forty-five gun in his hand. He killed a nigger over on Central this morning because he wouldn’t tell him where Velma was.

 naʊ hiː’ˈes ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ðə ˈfɪŋk ðæt tɜːnd hɪm ʌp eɪt ˈjiəz əˈɡəʊ.”
ə waɪt lʊk smɪəd ðə ˈwʊmən’ˈes feɪs. ʃiː pʊʃt ðə ˈbɒtl̩ əˈɡenst hɜː(ɑː) lɪps ənd ˈɡɜːɡl̩d ət ɪt. sʌm əv ðə ˈwɪski ræn daʊn hɜː(ɑː) tʃɪn.
“ənd ðə kɒps ə(ɑː) ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) hɪm,” ʃiː ˈsed ənd lɑːft. “kɒps. jɑː!”
ə ˈlʌvli əʊld ˈwʊmən. ˈaɪ ˈlaɪkt ˈbiːɪŋ wɪð hɜː(ɑː). ˈaɪ ˈlaɪkt ˈɡetɪŋ hɜː(ɑː) drʌŋk fɔː(ɑː) maɪ əʊn ˈsɔːdɪd ˈpɜːpəsɪz. ˈaɪ wɒz ə swel ɡaɪ.

 Now he’s looking for the fink that turned him up eight years ago.”
A white look smeared the woman’s face. She pushed the bottle against her lips and gurgled at it. Some of the whiskey ran down her chin.
“And the cops are looking for him,” she said and laughed. “Cops. Yah!”
A lovely old woman. I liked being with her. I liked getting her drunk for my own sordid purposes. I was a swell guy.

 ˈaɪ ɪndʒɔɪd ˈbiːɪŋ miː. juː faɪnd ˈɔːlməʊst ˈeniθɪŋ ˈʌndə(ɑː) jɔː(ɑː) hænd ɪn maɪ ˈbɪznəs, bʌt ˈaɪ wɒz bɪˈɡɪnɪŋ tuː bi ə ˈlɪtl̩ sɪk ət maɪ ˈstʌmək.
ˈaɪ ˈəʊpənd ðə ˈenvələʊp maɪ hænd wɒz ˈklʌtʃɪŋ ənd druː ˈaʊt ə ɡleɪzd stɪl. ɪt wɒz ˈlaɪk ðə ˈʌðəz bʌt ɪt wɒz ˈdɪfrənt, ˈmʌtʃ ˈnaɪsə(r). ðə ɡɜːl wɔː(ɑː) ə ˈpɪərəʊ ˈkɒstjuːm frəm ðə weɪst ʌp.

 I enjoyed being me. You find almost anything under your hand in my business, but I was beginning to be a little sick at my stomach.
I opened the envelope my hand was clutching and drew out a glazed still. It was like the others but it was different, much nicer. The girl wore a Pierrot costume from the waist up.

 ˈʌndə(ɑː) ðə waɪt ˈkɒnɪkl̩ hæt wɪð ə blæk ˈpɒmpɒn ɒn ðə tɒp, hɜː(ɑː) flʌft ˈaʊt heə(ɑː) həd ə dɑːk tɪndʒ ðæt maɪt həv biːn red. ðə feɪs wɒz ɪn proffle bʌt ðə ˈvɪzəbl̩ aɪ siːmd tuː həv ˈɡeɪəti ɪn ɪt. ˈaɪ wouldn’tiː ˈseɪ ðə feɪs wɒz ˈlʌvli ənd ʌnˈspɔɪld. ˈaɪ’em nɒt ðæt ɡʊd ət ˈfeɪsɪz. bʌt ɪt wɒz ˈprɪti. ˈpiːpl̩ həd biːn naɪs tuː ðæt feɪs, ɔː(ɑː) naɪs ɪˈnʌf fɔː(ɑː) ðeə(ɑː) ˈsɜːkl̩.

 Under the white conical hat with a black pompon on the top, her fluffed out hair had a dark tinge that might have been red. The face was in proffle but the visible eye seemed to have gaiety in it. I wouldn’t say the face was lovely and unspoiled. I’m not that good at faces. But it was pretty. People had been nice to that face, or nice enough for their circle.

 ˈdʒet ɪt wɒz ə ˈveri ˈɔːdɪnri feɪs ənd ɪts ˈprɪtɪnəs wɒz ˈstrɪkli əˈsembli laɪn. juː wʊd ˈsiː ə ˈdʌzn̩ ˈfeɪsɪz ˈlaɪk ɪt ɒn ə ˈsɪti ˈblɒk ɪn ðə nuːn ˈaʊə(ɑː).
bɪˈləʊ ðə weɪst ðə ˈfəʊtəʊ wɒz ˈməʊstli leɡz ənd ˈveri naɪs leɡz ət ðæt. ɪt wɒz saɪnd əˈkrɒs ðə ˈləʊə(r) raɪt hænd ˈkɔːnə(ɑː): “ˈɔːlweɪz jɔːz—ˈvelmə Valento.”
ˈaɪ held ɪt ʌp ɪn frʌnt əv ðə ˈflɔːiən ˈwʊmən, ˈaʊt əv hɜː(ɑː) riːtʃ. ʃiː lʌndʒd bʌt keɪm ʃɔːt.

 Yet it was a very ordinary face and its prettiness was strictly assembly line. You would see a dozen faces like it on a city block in the noon hour.
Below the waist the photo was mostly legs and very nice legs at that. It was signed across the lower right hand corner: “Always yours—Velma Valento.”
I held it up in front of the Florian woman, out of her reach. She lunged but came short.


“waɪ haɪd ɪt?” ˈaɪ ˈɑːskt.
ʃiː ˈmeɪd nəʊ ˈsaʊnd ɪkˈsept θɪk ˈbriːðɪŋ. ˈaɪ slɪpt ðə ˈfəʊtəʊ ˈbæk ˈɪntə ðə ˈenvələʊp ənd ðə ˈenvələʊp ˈɪntə maɪ ˈpɒkɪt.
“waɪ haɪd ɪt?” ˈaɪ ˈɑːskt əˈɡen. “ˈwɒt ˈmeɪks ɪt ˈdɪfrənt frəm ðə ˈʌðəz? weə(ɑː) ɪz ʃiː?”
“ʃiː’ˈes ded,” ðə ˈwʊmən ˈsed. “ʃiː wɒz ə ɡʊd ˈkɪd, bʌt ʃiː’ˈes ded, ˈkɒpə(ɑː). biːt ɪt.”
ðə ˈtɔːni ˈmæŋɡl̩d braʊz ˈwɜːkt ʌp ənd daʊn.


“Why hide it?” I asked.
She made no sound except thick breathing. I slipped the photo back into the envelope and the envelope into my pocket.
“Why hide it?” I asked again. “What makes it different from the others? Where is she?”
“She’s dead,” the woman said. “She was a good kid, but she’s dead, copper. Beat it.”
The tawny mangled brows worked up and down.

 hɜː(ɑː) hænd ˈəʊpənd ənd ðə ˈwɪski ˈbɒtl̩ slɪd tuː ðə ˈkɑːpɪt ənd bɪˈɡæn tuː ˈɡɜːɡl̩. ˈaɪ bent tuː pɪk ɪt ʌp. ʃiː ˈtraɪd tuː ˈkɪk miː ɪn ðə feɪs. ˈaɪ stept əˈweɪ frəm hɜː(ɑː).
“ənd ðæt stɪl doesn’tiː ˈseɪ waɪ juː hɪd ɪt,” ˈaɪ təʊld hɜː(ɑː). “wen dɪd ʃiː daɪ? ˈhaʊ?”
“ˈaɪ əm ə pʊə(ɑː) sɪk əʊld ˈwʊmən,” ʃiː ˈɡrʌntɪd. “ˈɡet əˈweɪ frəm miː, juː sʌn əv ə bɪtʃ.

 Her hand opened and the whiskey bottle slid to the carpet and began to gurgle. I bent to pick it up. She tried to kick me in the face. I stepped away from her.
“And that still doesn’t say why you hid it,” I told her. “When did she die? How?”
“I am a poor sick old woman,” she grunted. “Get away from me, you son of a bitch.

”
ˈaɪ stʊd ðeə(ɑː) ˈlʊkɪŋ ət hɜː(ɑː), nɒt ˈseɪɪŋ ˈeniθɪŋ, nɒt ˈθɪŋkɪŋ əv ˈeniθɪŋ pəˈtɪkjʊlə(ɑː) tuː ˈseɪ. ˈaɪ stept ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː hɜː(ɑː) saɪd ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ə ˈməʊmənt ənd ˈpʊt ðə flæt ˈbɒtl̩, naʊ ˈɔːlməʊst ˈempti, ɒn ðə ˈteɪbl̩ ət hɜː(ɑː) saɪd.
ʃiː wɒz ˈsteərɪŋ daʊn ət ðə ˈkɑːpɪt. ðə ˈreɪdɪəʊ drəʊnd ˈplezntli ɪn ðə ˈkɔːnə(ɑː). ə kɑː(ɑː) ˈwent baɪ ˌaʊtˈsaɪd. ə flaɪ bʌzd ɪn ə ˈwɪndəʊ.

”
I stood there looking at her, not saying anything, not thinking of anything particular to say. I stepped over to her side after a moment and put the flat bottle, now almost empty, on the table at her side.
She was staring down at the carpet. The radio droned pleasantly in the corner. A car went by outside. A fly buzzed in a window.

 ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ə ˈlɒŋ ˈtaɪm ʃiː muːvd wʌn lɪp ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ðə ˈʌðə(ɑː) ənd spəʊk tuː ðə flɔː(ɑː), ə ˈmiːnɪŋləs ˈdʒʌmbl̩ əv ˈwɜːdz frəm wɪtʃ ˈnʌθɪŋ ɪˈmɜːdʒd. ðen ʃiː lɑːft ənd θruː hɜː(ɑː) hed ˈbæk ənd druːld. ðen hɜː(ɑː) raɪt hænd riːtʃt fɔː(ɑː) ðə ˈbɒtl̩ ənd ɪt ˈrætl̩d əˈɡenst hɜː(ɑː) tiːθ əz ʃiː dreɪnd ɪt. wen ɪt wɒz ˈempti ʃiː held ɪt ʌp ənd ʃʊk ɪt ənd θruː ɪt ət miː.

 After a long time she moved one lip over the other and spoke to the floor, a meaningless jumble of words from which nothing emerged. Then she laughed and threw her head back and drooled. Then her right hand reached for the bottle and it rattled against her teeth as she drained it. When it was empty she held it up and shook it and threw it at me.

 ɪt ˈwent ɒf ɪn ðə ˈkɔːnə(ɑː) ˈsʌmweə(ɑː), ˈskɪdɪŋ əˈlɒŋ ðə ˈkɑːpɪt ənd ˈbrɪŋɪŋ ʌp wɪð ə θʌd əˈɡenst ðə ˈbeɪsbɔːd.
ʃiː lɪəd ət miː wʌns mɔː(ɑː), ðen hɜː(ɑː) aɪz kləʊzd ənd ʃiː bɪˈɡæn tuː snɔː(r).
ɪt maɪt həv biːn ən ækt, bʌt ˈaɪ didn’tiː keə(ɑː). sʌdn̩li ˈaɪ həd ɪˈnʌf əv ðə siːn, tuː ˈmʌtʃ əv ɪt, ˈfɑː(ɑː) tuː ˈmʌtʃ əv ɪt.

 It went off in the corner somewhere, skidding along the carpet and bringing up with a thud against the baseboard.
She leered at me once more, then her eyes closed and she began to snore.
It might have been an act, but I didn’t care. Suddenly I had enough of the scene, too much of it, far too much of it.


ˈaɪ pɪkt maɪ hæt ɒf ðə ˈdævnpɔːt ənd ˈwent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː ðə dɔː(ɑː) ənd ˈəʊpənd ɪt ənd ˈwent ˈaʊt pɑːst ðə skriːn. ðə ˈreɪdɪəʊ stɪl drəʊnd ɪn ðə ˈkɔːnə(ɑː) ənd ðə ˈwʊmən stɪl snɔːd ˈdʒentli ɪn hɜː(ɑː) tʃeə(ɑː). ˈaɪ θruː ə kwɪk lʊk ˈbæk ət hɜː(ɑː) bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) ˈaɪ kləʊzd ðə dɔː(ɑː), ðen ʃʌt ɪt, ˈəʊpənd ɪt əˈɡen ˈsaɪləntli ənd lʊkt əˈɡen.
hɜː(ɑː) aɪz wɜː(ɑː) stɪl ʃʌt bʌt ˈsʌmθɪŋ ɡliːmd bɪˈləʊ ðə lɪdz.


I picked my hat off the davenport and went over to the door and opened it and went out past the screen. The radio still droned in the corner and the woman still snored gently in her chair. I threw a quick look back at her before I closed the door, then shut it, opened it again silently and looked again.
Her eyes were still shut but something gleamed below the lids.

 ˈaɪ ˈwent daʊn ðə steps, əˈlɒŋ ðə krækt wɔːk tuː ðə striːt.
ɪn ðə nekst ˈhaʊs ə ˈwɪndəʊ ˈkɜːtn̩ wɒz drɔːn əˈsaɪd ənd ə ˈnærəʊ ɪnˈtent feɪs wɒz kləʊz tuː ðə ˈɡlɑːs, ˈpɪərɪŋ, ən əʊld ˈwʊmən’ˈes feɪs wɪð waɪt heə(ɑː) ənd ə ʃɑːp nəʊz.
əʊld ˈnəʊzi ˈtʃekɪŋ ʌp ɒn ðə ˈneɪbərz. ðeə(ɑː)’ˈes ˈɔːlweɪz ət liːst wʌn ˈlaɪk hɜː(ɑː) tuː ðə ˈblɒk. ˈaɪ weɪvd ə hænd ət hɜː(ɑː). ðə ˈkɜːtn̩ fel.

 I went down the steps, along the cracked walk to the street.
In the next house a window curtain was drawn aside and a narrow intent face was close to the glass, peering, an old woman’s face with white hair and a sharp nose.
Old Nosey checking up on the neighbors. There’s always at least one like her to the block. I waved a hand at her. The curtain fell.


ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈbæk tuː maɪ kɑː(ɑː) ənd ˈɡɒt ˈɪntə ɪt ənd drəʊv ˈbæk tuː ðə 77th striːt dɪˈvɪʒn̩, ənd klaɪmd ˌʌpˈsteəz tuː ˈnəlti’ˈes ˈsmeli ˈlɪtl̩ ˈkʌbɪhəʊl əv ən ˈɒfɪs ɒn ðə ˈsekənd flɔː(ɑː).


I went back to my car and got into it and drove back to the 77th Street Division, and climbed upstairs to Nulty’s smelly little cubbyhole of an office on the second floor.

6
ˈnəlti didn’tiː siːm tuː həv muːvd. hiː sæt ɪn hɪz tʃeə(ɑː) ɪn ðə seɪm ˈætɪtjuːd əv ˈsaʊə(r) ˈpeɪʃns. bʌt ðeə(ɑː) wɜː(ɑː) ˈtuː mɔː(ɑː) sɪˈɡɑː(ɑː) stʌbz ɪn hɪz ˈæʃtreɪ ənd ðə flɔː(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈθɪkə(r) ɪn bɜːnt ˈmætʃɪz.

6
Nulty didn’t seem to have moved. He sat in his chair in the same attitude of sour patience. But there were two more cigar stubs in his ashtray and the floor was a little thicker in burnt matches.


ˈaɪ sæt daʊn ət ðə ˈveɪkənt desk ənd ˈnəlti tɜːnd ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ə ˈfəʊtəʊ ðæt wɒz ˈlaɪɪŋ feɪs daʊn ɒn hɪz desk ənd ˈhændɪd ɪt tuː miː. ɪt wɒz ə pəˈliːs mʌɡ, frʌnt ənd ˈprəʊfaɪl, wɪð ə ˈfɪŋɡəprɪnt ˌklæsɪfɪˈkeɪʃn̩ ˌʌndəˈniːθ. ɪt wɒz məˌlɔɪ ɔːl raɪt, ˈteɪkən ɪn ə strɒŋ laɪt, ənd ˈlʊkɪŋ əz ɪf hiː həd nəʊ mɔː(ɑː) ˈaɪbraʊz ðæn ə frentʃ rəʊl.
“ðæt’ˈes ðə ˌbɔɪ.” ˈaɪ pɑːst ɪt ˈbæk.


I sat down at the vacant desk and Nulty turned over a photo that was lying face down on his desk and handed it to me. It was a police mug, front and profile, with a fingerprint classification underneath. It was Malloy all right, taken in a strong light, and looking as if he had no more eyebrows than a French roll.
“That’s the boy.” I passed it back.


“wiː ˈɡɒt ə ˈwaɪə(ɑː) frəm ˈɒrɪɡən steɪt pen ɒn hɪm,” ˈnəlti ˈsed. “ɔːl ˈtaɪm sɜːvd ɪkˈsept hɪz ˈkɒpə(ɑː). ˈθɪŋz lʊk beter. wiː ˈɡɒt hɪm ˈkɔːnəd. ə praʊl kɑː(ɑː) wɒz ˈtɔːkɪŋ tuː ə kənˈdʌktə(ɑː) ðə end əv ðə ˈsevnθ striːt laɪn. ðə kənˈdʌktə(ɑː) ˈmenʃn̩d ə ɡaɪ ðæt saɪz, ˈlʊkɪŋ ˈlaɪk ðæt. hiː ˈɡɒt ɒf ˈθɜːd ənd ˌælɪɡˈzɑːndriə. ˈwɒt hiː’laɪnz duː ɪz breɪk ˈɪntə sʌm bɪɡ ˈhaʊs weə(ɑː) ðə fəʊks ə(ɑː) əˈweɪ.


“We got a wire from Oregon State pen on him,” Nulty said. “All time served except his copper. Things look beter. We got him cornered. A prowl car was talking to a conductor the end of the Seventh Street line. The conductor mentioned a guy that size, looking like that. He got off Third and Alexandria. What he’ll do is break into some big house where the folks are away.

 lɒts əv ‘əm ðeə(ɑː), əʊld-ˈfæʃn̩d ˈpleɪsɪz tuː ˈfɑː(ɑː) ˈdaʊntaʊn naʊ ənd hɑːd tuː rent. hiː’laɪnz breɪk ɪn wʌn ənd wiː ˈɡɒt hɪm ˈbɒtl̩d. ˈwɒt juː biːn ˈduːɪŋ?”
“wɒz hiː ˈweərɪŋ ə ˈfænsi hæt ənd waɪt ɡɒlf bɔːlz ɒn hɪz ˈdʒækɪt?”
ˈnəlti fraʊnd ənd ˈtwɪstɪd hɪz hændz ɒn hɪz ˈniːkæps. “nəʊ, ə bluː suːt. ˈmeɪbiː braʊn.”
“ʃʊə(ɑː) ɪt wasn’tiː ə səˈrɒŋ?”
“hʌ? əʊ jeə, ˈfʌni. rɪˈmaɪnd miː tuː lɑːf ɒn maɪ deɪ ɒf.

 Lots of ‘em there, old-fashioned places too far downtown now and hard to rent. He’ll break in one and we got him bottled. What you been doing?”
“Was he wearing a fancy hat and white golf balls on his jacket?”
Nulty frowned and twisted his hands on his kneecaps. “No, a blue suit. Maybe brown.”
“Sure it wasn’t a sarong?”
“Huh? Oh yeah, funny. Remind me to laugh on my day off.

”
ˈaɪ ˈsed: “ðæt wasn’tiː ðə muːs. hiː wouldn’tiː raɪd ə striːt kɑː(ɑː). hiː həd ˈmʌni. lʊk ət ðə kləʊðz hiː wɒz ˈweərɪŋ. hiː couldn’tiː weə(ɑː) stɒk ˈsaɪzɪz. ˈðeɪ mʌst həv biːn ˈmeɪd tuː ˈɔːdə(ɑː).”
“ˈoki, raɪd miː,” ˈnəlti skaʊld. “ˈwɒt juː biːn ˈduːɪŋ?”
“ˈwɒt juː ˈɔːt tuː həv dʌn. ðɪs ˈpleɪs kɔːld ˈflɔːiən’ˈes wɒz ˈʌndə(ɑː) ðə seɪm ˈneɪm wen ɪt wɒz ə waɪt naɪt træp.

”
I said: “That wasn’t the Moose. He wouldn’t ride a street car. He had money. Look at the clothes he was wearing. He couldn’t wear stock sizes. They must have been made to order.”
“Okey, ride me,” Nulty scowled. “What you been doing?”
“What you ought to have done. This place called Florian’s was under the same name when it was a white night trap.

 ˈaɪ ˈtɔːkt tuː ə ˈniːɡrəʊ hotelman huː nəʊz ðə ˈneɪbərˌhʊd. ðə saɪn wɒz ɪkˈspensɪv ˈsəʊ ðə ʃaɪnz dʒəst ˈwent ɒn ˈjuːzɪŋ ɪt wen ˈðeɪ tʊk ˈəʊvə(ɑː). ðə mæn’ˈes ˈneɪm wɒz maɪk ˈflɔːiən. hiː’ˈes ded sʌm ˈjiəz, bʌt hɪz ˈwɪdəʊ ɪz stɪl əˈraʊnd. ʃiː laɪvz ət 1644 west 54th ˈpleɪs. hɜː(ɑː) ˈneɪm ɪz ˈdʒesi ˈflɔːiən. ʃiː’ˈes nɒt ɪn ðə fəʊn bʊk, bʌt ʃiː ɪz ɪn ðə ˈsɪti dɪˈrektəri.”
“wel, ˈwɒt duː ˈaɪ duː—deɪt hɜː(ɑː) ʌp?” ˈnəlti ˈɑːskt.

 I talked to a Negro hotelman who knows the neighborhood. The sign was expensive so the shines just went on using it when they took over. The man’s name was Mike Florian. He’s dead some years, but his widow is still around. She lives at 1644 West 54th Place. Her name is Jessie Florian. She’s not in the phone book, but she is in the city directory.”
“Well, what do I do—date her up?” Nulty asked.


“ˈaɪ dɪd ɪt fɔː(ɑː) juː. ˈaɪ tʊk ɪn ə paɪnt əv ˈbɜːbən wɪð miː. ʃiː’ˈes ə ˈtʃɑːmɪŋ ˈmɪdl̩-eɪdʒd ˈleɪdi wɪð ə feɪs ˈlaɪk ə ˈbʌkɪt əv mʌd ənd ɪf ʃiː hæz wɒʃt hɜː(ɑː) heə(ɑː) sɪns ˈkuːlɪdʒ’ˈes ˈsekənd tɜːm, ˈaɪ’laɪnz iːt maɪ speə(ɑː) ˈtaɪə(r), rɪm ənd ɔːl.”
“skɪp ðə ˈwaɪzkræks,” ˈnəlti ˈsed.
“ˈaɪ ˈɑːskt ˈmɪsɪz. ˈflɔːiən əˈbaʊt ˈvelmə. juː rɪˈmembə(ɑː), ˈmɪstə(ɑː). ˈnəlti, ðə ˈredhed ˈneɪmd ˈvelmə ðæt muːs məˌlɔɪ wɒz ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː)?


“I did it for you. I took in a pint of bourbon with me. She’s a charming middle-aged lady with a face like a bucket of mud and if she has washed her hair since Coolidge’s second term, I’ll eat my spare tire, rim and all.”
“Skip the wisecracks,” Nulty said.
“I asked Mrs. Florian about Velma. You remember, Mr. Nulty, the redhead named Velma that Moose Malloy was looking for?

 ˈaɪ’em nɒt ˈtaɪərɪŋ juː, əm ˈaɪ, ˈmɪstə(ɑː). ˈnəlti?”
“ˈwɒt juː sɔː(r) əˈbaʊt?”
“juː wouldn’tiː ˌʌndəˈstænd. ˈmɪsɪz. ˈflɔːiən ˈsed ʃiː didn’tiː rɪˈmembə(ɑː) ˈvelmə. hɜː(ɑː) həʊm ɪz ˈveri ˈʃæbi ɪkˈsept fɔː(ɑː) ə njuː ˈreɪdɪəʊ, wɜːθ ˈsevnti ɔː(ɑː) ˈeɪti ˈdɒləz.”
“juː ain’tiː təʊld miː waɪ ðæt’ˈes ˈsʌmθɪŋ ˈaɪ ʃʊd stɑːt ˈskriːmɪŋ əˈbaʊt.”
“ˈmɪsɪz.

 I’m not tiring you, am I, Mr. Nulty?”
“What you sore about?”
“You wouldn’t understand. Mrs. Florian said she didn’t remember Velma. Her home is very shabby except for a new radio, worth seventy or eighty dollars.”
“You ain’t told me why that’s something I should start screaming about.”
“Mrs.

 ˈflɔːiən—ˈdʒesi tuː miː—ˈsed hɜː(ɑː) ˈhʌzbənd left hɜː(ɑː) ˈnʌθɪŋ bʌt hɪz əʊld kləʊðz ənd ə bʌntʃ əv stɪlz əv ðə ɡæŋ huː ˈwɜːkt ət hɪz dʒɔɪnt frəm ˈtaɪm tuː ˈtaɪm. ˈaɪ plaɪd hɜː(ɑː) wɪð ˈlɪkə(r) ənd ʃiː ɪz ə ɡɜːl huː wɪl teɪk ə drɪŋk ɪf ʃiː hæz tuː nɒk juː daʊn tuː ˈɡet ðə ˈbɒtl̩.

 Florian—Jessie to me—said her husband left her nothing but his old clothes and a bunch of stills of the gang who worked at his joint from time to time. I plied her with liquor and she is a girl who will take a drink if she has to knock you down to get the bottle.

 ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ðə ˈθɜːd ɔː(ɑː) ˈfɔːθ ʃiː ˈwent ˈɪntə hɜː(ɑː) ˈmɒdɪst ˈbedruːm ənd θruː ˈθɪŋz əˈraʊnd ənd dʌɡ ðə bʌntʃ əv stɪlz ˈaʊt əv ðə ˈbɒtəm əv ən əʊld trʌŋk. bʌt ˈaɪ wɒz ˈwɒtʃɪŋ hɜː(ɑː) wɪðˈaʊt hɜː(ɑː) ˈnəʊɪŋ ɪt ənd ʃiː slɪpt wʌn ˈaʊt əv ðə ˈpækɪt ənd hɪd ɪt. ˈsəʊ ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ə waɪl ˈaɪ ˈsnək ɪn ðeə(ɑː) ənd ɡræbd ɪt.”
ˈaɪ riːtʃt ˈɪntə maɪ ˈpɒkɪt ənd leɪd ðə ˈpɪərəʊ ɡɜːl ɒn hɪz desk.

 After the third or fourth she went into her modest bedroom and threw things around and dug the bunch of stills out of the bottom of an old trunk. But I was watching her without her knowing it and she slipped one out of the packet and hid it. So after a while I snuck in there and grabbed it.”
I reached into my pocket and laid the Pierrot girl on his desk.

 hiː ˈlɪftɪd ɪt ənd steəd ət ɪt ənd hɪz lɪps quirked ət ðə ˈkɔːnəz.
“kjuːt,” hiː ˈsed. “kjuːt ɪˈnʌf, ˈaɪ kʊd həv ˈjuːzd ə piːs əv ðæt wʌns. hɔː, hɔː. ˈvelmə Valento, hʌ? ˈwɒt ˈhæpənd tuː ðɪs dɒl?”
“ˈmɪsɪz. ˈflɔːiən ˈsez ʃiː daɪd—bʌt ðæt ˈhɑːdli ɪkˈspleɪnz waɪ ʃiː hɪd ðə ˈfəʊtəʊ.”
“ɪt dɒn’tiː duː ət ðæt. waɪ dɪd ʃiː haɪd ɪt?”
“ʃiː wouldn’tiː tel miː.

 He lifted it and stared at it and his lips quirked at the corners.
“Cute,” he said. “Cute enough, I could have used a piece of that once. Haw, haw. Velma Valento, huh? What happened to this doll?”
“Mrs. Florian says she died—but that hardly explains why she hid the photo.”
“It don’t do at that. Why did she hide it?”
“She wouldn’t tell me.

 ɪn ðə end, ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ˈaɪ təʊld hɜː(ɑː) əˈbaʊt ðə muːs ˈbiːɪŋ ˈaʊt, ʃiː siːmd tuː teɪk ə dɪsˈlaɪk tuː miː. ðæt ˈsiːmz ɪmˈpɒsəbl̩, doesn’tiː ɪt?”
“ɡəʊ ɒn,” ˈnəlti ˈsed.
“ðæt’ˈes ɔːl. ˈaɪ’ˈviː təʊld juː ðə fækts ənd ɡɪvn̩ juː ðə ɪɡˈzɪbɪt. ɪf juː kæn’tiː ˈɡet ˈsʌmweə(ɑː) ɒn ðɪs set-ʌp, ˈnʌθɪŋ ˈaɪ kʊd ˈseɪ wʊd help.”
“weə(ɑː) wʊd ˈaɪ ˈɡet? ɪt’ˈes stɪl ə ʃaɪn ˈkɪlɪŋ. weɪt’laɪnz wiː ˈɡet ðə muːs.

 In the end, after I told her about the Moose being out, she seemed to take a dislike to me. That seems impossible, doesn’t it?”
“Go on,” Nulty said.
“That’s all. I’ve told you the facts and given you the exhibit. If you can’t get somewhere on this set-up, nothing I could say would help.”
“Where would I get? It’s still a shine killing. Wait’ll we get the Moose.

 hel, ɪt’ˈes eɪt ˈjiəz sɪns hiː ˈsɔː ðə ɡɜːl ənˈles ʃiː ˈvɪzɪtɪd hɪm ɪn ðə pen.”
“ɔːl raɪt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “bʌt dɒn’tiː fəˈɡet hiː’ˈes ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) hɜː(ɑː) ənd hiː’ˈes ə mæn huː wʊd beə(ɑː) daʊn. baɪ ðə ˈweɪ, hiː wɒz ɪn fɔː(ɑː) ə bæŋk dʒɒb. ðæt miːnz ə rɪˈwɔːd. huː ˈɡɒt ɪt?”
“ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː nəʊ,” ˈnəlti ˈsed. “ˈmeɪbiː ˈaɪ kʊd faɪnd ˈaʊt. waɪ?”
“ˈsʌmbədi tɜːnd hɪm ʌp. ˈmeɪbiː hiː nəʊz huː.

 Hell, it’s eight years since he saw the girl unless she visited him in the pen.”
“All right,” I said. “But don’t forget he’s looking for her and he’s a man who would bear down. By the way, he was in for a bank job. That means a reward. Who got it?”
“I don’t know,” Nulty said. “Maybe I could find out. Why?”
“Somebody turned him up. Maybe he knows who.

 ðæt wʊd bi əˈnʌðə(ɑː) dʒɒb hiː wʊd ɡɪv ˈtaɪm tuː.” ˈaɪ stʊd ʌp. “wel, ˈɡʊdˌbaɪ ənd ɡʊd lʌk.”
“juː ˈwɔːkɪŋ ˈaʊt ɒn miː?”
ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː ðə dɔː(ɑː). “ˈaɪ həv tuː ɡəʊ həʊm ənd teɪk ə bɑːθ ənd ˈɡɑːɡl̩ maɪ θrəʊt ənd ˈɡet maɪ neɪlz ˈmænɪkjʊəd.”
“juː ain’tiː sɪk, ə(ɑː) juː?”
“dʒəst ˈdɜːti,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ˈveri, ˈveri ˈdɜːti.”
“wel, ˈwɒt’ˈes jɔː(ɑː) ˈhʌri? sɪt daʊn ə maɪˈnjuːt.

 That would be another job he would give time to.” I stood up. “Well, goodby and good luck.”
“You walking out on me?”
I went over to the door. “I have to go home and take a bath and gargle my throat and get my nails manicured.”
“You ain’t sick, are you?”
“Just dirty,” I said. “Very, very dirty.”
“Well, what’s your hurry? Sit down a minute.

” hiː liːnd ˈbæk ənd hʊkt hɪz ˈθʌmz ɪn hɪz vest, wɪtʃ ˈmeɪd hɪm lʊk ə ˈlɪtl̩ mɔː(ɑː) ˈlaɪk ə kɒp, bʌt didn’tiː ˈmeɪk hɪm lʊk ˈeni mɔː(ɑː) mæɡˈnetɪk.
“nəʊ ˈhʌri,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “nəʊ ˈhʌri ət ɔːl. ðeə(ɑː)’ˈes ˈnʌθɪŋ mɔː(ɑː) ˈaɪ kæn duː. əˈpærəntli ðɪs ˈvelmə ɪz ded, ɪf ˈmɪsɪz. ˈflɔːiən ɪz ˈtelɪŋ ðə truːθ—ənd ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː ət ðə ˈməʊmənt nəʊ əv ˈeni ˈriːzən waɪ ʃiː ʃʊd laɪ əˈbaʊt ɪt. ðæt wɒz ɔːl ˈaɪ wɒz ˈɪntrəstɪd ɪn.

” He leaned back and hooked his thumbs in his vest, which made him look a little more like a cop, but didn’t make him look any more magnetic.
“No hurry,” I said. “No hurry at all. There’s nothing more I can do. Apparently this Velma is dead, if Mrs. Florian is telling the truth—and I don’t at the moment know of any reason why she should lie about it. That was all I was interested in.

”
“jeə,” ˈnəlti ˈsed səˈspɪʃəsli—frəm fɔːs əv ˈhæbɪt.
“ənd juː həv muːs məˌlɔɪ ɔːl səʊd ʌp ˈeniweɪ, ənd ðæt’ˈes ðæt. ˈsəʊ ˈaɪ’laɪnz dʒəst rʌn ɒn həʊm naʊ ənd ɡəʊ əˈbaʊt ðə ˈbɪznəs əv ˈtraɪɪŋ tuː ɜːn ə ˈlɪvɪŋ.”
“wiː maɪt mɪs ˈaʊt ɒn ðə muːs,” ˈnəlti ˈsed. “ɡaɪz ˈɡet əˈweɪ wʌns ɪn ə waɪl. ˈiːvn̩ bɪɡ ɡaɪz.” hɪz aɪz wɜː(ɑː) səˈspɪʃəs ˈɔːlsəʊ, ˌɪnsəˈfɑː(r) əz ˈðeɪ kənˈteɪnd ˈeni ɪkˈspreʃn̩ ət ɔːl.

”
“Yeah,” Nulty said suspiciously—from force of habit.
“And you have Moose Malloy all sewed up anyway, and that’s that. So I’ll just run on home now and go about the business of trying to earn a living.”
“We might miss out on the Moose,” Nulty said. “Guys get away once in a while. Even big guys.” His eyes were suspicious also, insofar as they contained any expression at all.

 “ˈhaʊ ˈmʌtʃ ʃiː slɪp juː?”
“ˈwɒt?”
“ˈhaʊ ˈmʌtʃ ðɪs əʊld ˈleɪdi slɪp juː tuː leɪ ɒf?”
“leɪ ɒf ˈwɒt?”
“wɒtˈevə(ɑː) ɪt ɪz juː’riː layin’ ɒf frəm naʊ ɒn.” hiː muːvd hɪz ˈθʌmz frəm hɪz ˈɑːmhəʊlz ənd ˈpleɪst ðem təˈɡeðə(ɑː) ɪn frʌnt əv hɪz vest ənd pʊʃt ðem əˈɡenst iːtʃ ˈʌðə(ɑː). hiː smaɪld.
“əʊ, fɔː(ɑː) ˈkraɪst’ˈes seɪk,” ˈaɪ ˈsed, ənd ˈwent ˈaʊt əv ðə ˈɒfɪs, ˈliːvɪŋ hɪz maʊθ ˈəʊpən.

 “How much she slip you?”
“What?”
“How much this old lady slip you to lay off?”
“Lay off what?”
“Whatever it is you’re layin’ off from now on.” He moved his thumbs from his armholes and placed them together in front of his vest and pushed them against each other. He smiled.
“Oh, for Christ’s sake,” I said, and went out of the office, leaving his mouth open.


wen ˈaɪ wɒz əˈbaʊt ə jɑːd frəm ðə dɔː(ɑː), ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈbæk ənd ˈəʊpənd ɪt əˈɡen ˈkwaɪətli ənd lʊkt ɪn. hiː wɒz ˈsɪtɪŋ ɪn ðə seɪm pəˈzɪʃn̩ ˈpʊʃɪŋ hɪz ˈθʌmz ət iːtʃ ˈʌðə(ɑː). bʌt hiː wasn’tiː ˈsmaɪlɪŋ ˈeni mɔː(ɑː). hiː lʊkt ˈwʌrɪd. hɪz maʊθ wɒz stɪl ˈəʊpən.
hiː didn’tiː muːv ɔː(ɑː) lʊk ʌp. ˈaɪ didn’tiː nəʊ ˈweðə(ɑː) hiː hɜːd miː ɔː(ɑː) nɒt. ˈaɪ ʃʌt ðə dɔː(ɑː) əˈɡen ənd ˈwent əˈweɪ.


When I was about a yard from the door, I went back and opened it again quietly and looked in. He was sitting in the same position pushing his thumbs at each other. But he wasn’t smiling any more. He looked worried. His mouth was still open.
He didn’t move or look up. I didn’t know whether he heard me or not. I shut the door again and went away.





7
ˈðeɪ həd ˈremˌbrænt ɒn ðə ˈkælɪndə(ɑː) ðæt ˈjiə(ɑː), ə ˈrɑːðə(ɑː) ˈsmɪərɪ self-ˈpɔːtrɪt djuː tuː ɪmˈpɜːfɪktli ˈredʒɪstəd ˈkʌlər pleɪt. ɪt ʃəʊd hɪm ˈhəʊldɪŋ ə smɪəd ˈpælɪt wɪð ə ˈdɜːti ˈθʌm ənd ˈweərɪŋ ə ˈtæm-əʊ’-shanter wɪtʃ wasn’tiː ˈeni tuː kliːn ˈaɪðə(ɑː). hɪz ˈʌðə(ɑː) hænd held ə brʌʃ pɔɪzd ɪn ðə eə(ɑː), əz ɪf hiː maɪt bi ˈɡəʊɪŋ tuː duː ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈwɜːk ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ə waɪl, ɪf ˈsʌmbədi ˈmeɪd ə daʊn ˈpeɪmənt.

7
They had Rembrandt on the calendar that year, a rather smeary self-portrait due to imperfectly registered color plate. It showed him holding a smeared palette with a dirty thumb and wearing a tam-o’-shanter which wasn’t any too clean either. His other hand held a brush poised in the air, as if he might be going to do a little work after a while, if somebody made a down payment.

 hɪz feɪs wɒz ˈeɪdʒɪŋ, saggy, fʊl əv ðə dɪsˈɡʌst əv laɪf ənd ðə ˈθɪkənɪŋ ɪˈfekts əv ˈlɪkə(r). bʌt ɪt həd ə hɑːd ˈtʃɪəfəlnəs ðæt ˈaɪ ˈlaɪkt, ənd ðə aɪz wɜː(ɑː) əz braɪt əz drɒps əv djuː.
ˈaɪ wɒz ˈlʊkɪŋ ət hɪm əˈkrɒs maɪ ˈɒfɪs desk ət əˈbaʊt fɔː(ɑː)-ˈθɜːti wen ðə fəʊn ræŋ ənd ˈaɪ hɜːd ə kuːl, ˌsuːpəˈsɪlɪəs vɔɪs ðæt ˈsaʊndɪd əz ɪf ɪt ˈθɔːt ɪt wɒz ˈprɪti ɡʊd.

 His face was aging, saggy, full of the disgust of life and the thickening effects of liquor. But it had a hard cheerfulness that I liked, and the eyes were as bright as drops of dew.
I was looking at him across my office desk at about four-thirty when the phone rang and I heard a cool, supercilious voice that sounded as if it thought it was pretty good.

 ɪt ˈsed drawlingly, ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ˈaɪ həd ˈɑːnsəd:
“juː ə(ɑː) ˈfɪlɪp ˈmɑːˌləʊ, ə ˈpraɪvɪt dɪˈtektɪv?”
“tʃek.”
“əʊ—juː miːn, jes. juː həv biːn ˌrekəˈmendɪd tuː miː əz ə mæn huː kæn bi ˈtrʌstɪd tuː kiːp hɪz maʊθ ʃʌt. ˈaɪ ʃʊd ˈlaɪk juː tuː kʌm tuː maɪ ˈhaʊs ət ˈsevn̩ əʊ’ˈklɒk ðɪs ˈiːvn̩ɪŋ. wiː kæn dɪˈskʌs ə ˈmætə(ɑː). maɪ ˈneɪm ɪz ˈlɪndzi ˈmeriət ənd ˈaɪ laɪv ət 4212 Cabrillo striːt, Montemar ˈvɪstə.

 It said drawlingly, after I had answered:
“You are Philip Marlowe, a private detective?”
“Check.”
“Oh—you mean, yes. You have been recommended to me as a man who can be trusted to keep his mouth shut. I should like you to come to my house at seven o’clock this evening. We can discuss a matter. My name is Lindsay Marriott and I live at 4212 Cabrillo Street, Montemar Vista.

 duː juː nəʊ weə(ɑː) ðæt ɪz?”
“ˈaɪ nəʊ weə(ɑː) Montemar ˈvɪstə ɪz, ˈmɪstə(ɑː). ˈmeriət.”
“jes. wel, Cabrillo striːt ɪz ˈrɑːðə(ɑː) hɑːd tuː faɪnd. ðə striːts daʊn hɪə(ɑː) ə(ɑː) ɔːl leɪd ˈaʊt ɪn ə ˈpætn̩ əv ˈɪntrəstɪŋ bʌt ˈɪntrɪkət kɜːvz. ˈaɪ ʃʊd səˈdʒest ðæt juː wɔːk ʌp ðə steps frəm ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk ˈkæfeɪ. ɪf juː duː ðæt, Cabrillo ɪz ðə ˈθɜːd striːt juː kʌm tuː ənd maɪ ˈhaʊs ɪz ðə ˈəʊnli wʌn ɒn ðə ˈblɒk.

 Do you know where that is?”
“I know where Montemar Vista is, Mr. Marriott.”
“Yes. Well, Cabrillo Street is rather hard to find. The streets down here are all laid out in a pattern of interesting but intricate curves. I should suggest that you walk up the steps from the sidewalk cafe. If you do that, Cabrillo is the third street you come to and my house is the only one on the block.

 ət ˈsevn̩ ðen?”
“ˈwɒt ɪz ðə ˈneɪtʃə(ɑː) əv ðə ɪmˈploɪmənt, ˈmɪstə(ɑː). ˈmeriət?”
“ˈaɪ ʃʊd prɪˈfɜː(r) nɒt tuː dɪˈskʌs ðæt ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ðə fəʊn.”
“kæn’tiː juː ɡɪv miː sʌm aɪˈdɪə? Montemar ˈvɪstə ɪz kwaɪt ə ˈdɪstəns.”
“ˈaɪ ʃæl bi ɡlæd tuː peɪ jɔː(ɑː) ɪkˈspensɪz, ɪf wiː dɒn’tiː əˈɡriː. ə(ɑː) juː pəˈtɪkjʊlə(ɑː) əˈbaʊt ðə ˈneɪtʃə(ɑː) əv ðə ɪmˈploɪmənt?”
“nɒt əz ˈlɒŋ əz ɪt’ˈes lɪˈdʒɪtɪmət.”
ðə vɔɪs ɡruː ˈaɪsɪkl̩z.

 At seven then?”
“What is the nature of the employment, Mr. Marriott?”
“I should prefer not to discuss that over the phone.”
“Can’t you give me some idea? Montemar Vista is quite a distance.”
“I shall be glad to pay your expenses, if we don’t agree. Are you particular about the nature of the employment?”
“Not as long as it’s legitimate.”
The voice grew icicles.

 “ˈaɪ ʃʊd nɒt həv kɔːld juː, ɪf ɪt wɜː(ɑː) nɒt.”
ə ˈhɑːvərd ˌbɔɪ. naɪs ˈjuːs əv ðə səbˈdʒʌŋktɪv muːd. ðə end əv maɪ fʊt ɪtʃt, bʌt maɪ bæŋk əˈkaʊnt wɒz stɪl ˈtraɪɪŋ tuː krɔːl ˈʌndə(ɑː) ə dʌk. ˈaɪ ˈpʊt ˈhʌni ˈɪntə maɪ vɔɪs ənd ˈsed: “ˈmeni θæŋks fɔː(ɑː) ˈkɔːlɪŋ miː, ˈmɪstə(ɑː). ˈmeriət. ˈaɪ’laɪnz bi ðeə(ɑː).”
hiː hʌŋ ʌp ənd ðæt wɒz ðæt. ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt ˈmɪstə(ɑː). ˈremˌbrænt həd ə feɪnt snɪə(r) ɒn hɪz feɪs.

 “I should not have called you, if it were not.”
A Harvard boy. Nice use of the subjunctive mood. The end of my foot itched, but my bank account was still trying to crawl under a duck. I put honey into my voice and said: “Many thanks for calling me, Mr. Marriott. I’ll be there.”
He hung up and that was that. I thought Mr. Rembrandt had a faint sneer on his face.

 ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt ðə ˈɒfɪs ˈbɒtl̩ ˈaʊt əv ðə diːp drɔː(ɑː) əv ðə desk ənd tʊk ə ʃɔːt drɪŋk. ðæt tʊk ðə snɪə(r) ˈaʊt əv ˈmɪstə(ɑː). ˈremˌbrænt ɪn ə ˈhʌri.
ə wedʒ əv ˈsʌnlaɪt slɪpt ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ðə edʒ əv ðə desk ənd fel ˈnɔɪzləsli tuː ðə ˈkɑːpɪt. ˈtræfɪk laɪts bɒŋ-bonged ˌaʊtˈsaɪd ɒn ðə ˈbuːləvɑːd, ˌɪntəˈrɜːbən kɑːz ˈpaʊndɪd baɪ, ə ˈtaɪpraɪtə(r) klækt məˈnɒtənəsli ɪn ðə ˈlɔːjə(r)’ˈes ˈɒfɪs bɪˈjɒnd ðə ˈpɑːti wɔːl.

 I got the office bottle out of the deep drawer of the desk and took a short drink. That took the sneer out of Mr. Rembrandt in a hurry.
A wedge of sunlight slipped over the edge of the desk and fell noiselessly to the carpet. Traffic lights bong-bonged outside on the boulevard, interurban cars pounded by, a typewriter clacked monotonously in the lawyer’s office beyond the party wall.

 ˈaɪ həd fɪld ənd lɪt ə paɪp wen ðə ˈtelɪfəʊn ræŋ əˈɡen.
ɪt wɒz ˈnəlti ðɪs ˈtaɪm. hɪz vɔɪs ˈsaʊndɪd fʊl əv beɪkt pəˈteɪtəʊ. “wel, ˈaɪ ɡes ˈaɪ ain’tiː kwaɪt braɪt ət ðæt,” hiː ˈsed, wen hiː njuː huː hiː wɒz ˈtɔːkɪŋ tuː. “ˈaɪ mɪs wʌn. məˌlɔɪ ˈwent tuː ˈsiː ðæt ˈflɔːiən deɪm.”
ˈaɪ held ðə fəʊn taɪt ɪˈnʌf tuː kræk ɪt. maɪ ˈʌpə(ɑː) lɪp sʌdn̩li felt ə ˈlɪtl̩ kəʊld. “ɡəʊ ɒn. ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt juː həd hɪm ˈkɔːnəd.

 I had filled and lit a pipe when the telephone rang again.
It was Nulty this time. His voice sounded full of baked potato. “Well, I guess I ain’t quite bright at that,” he said, when he knew who he was talking to. “I miss one. Malloy went to see that Florian dame.”
I held the phone tight enough to crack it. My upper lip suddenly felt a little cold. “Go on. I thought you had him cornered.

”
“wɒz sʌm ˈʌðə(ɑː) ɡaɪ. məˌlɔɪ ain’tiː əˈraʊnd ðeə(ɑː) ət ɔːl. wiː ˈɡet ə kɔːl frəm sʌm əʊld ˈwɪndəʊ-peeker ɒn west ˈfɪfti-fɔː(ɑː). ˈtuː ɡaɪz wɒz tuː ˈsiː ðə ˈflɔːiən deɪm. ˈnʌmbə(ɑː) wʌn pɑːkt ðə ˈʌðə(ɑː) saɪd əv ðə striːt ənd ˈæktɪd kaɪnd əv ˈkeɪdʒi. lʊkt ðə dʌmp ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ɡʊd bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) hiː ˈwent ɪn. wɒz ɪn əˈbaʊt ən ˈaʊə(ɑː). sɪks fiːt, dɑːk heə(ɑː), ˈmiːdɪəm ˈhevi bɪlt. kʌm ˈaʊt ˈkwaɪət.”
“hiː həd ˈlɪkə(r) ɒn hɪz breθ tuː,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.

”
“Was some other guy. Malloy ain’t around there at all. We get a call from some old window-peeker on West Fifty-four. Two guys was to see the Florian dame. Number one parked the other side of the street and acted kind of cagey. Looked the dump over good before he went in. Was in about an hour. Six feet, dark hair, medium heavy built. Come out quiet.”
“He had liquor on his breath too,” I said.


“əʊ, ʃʊə(ɑː). ðæt wɒz juː, wasn’tiː ɪt? wel, ˈnʌmbə(ɑː) ˈtuː wɒz ðə muːs. ɡaɪ ɪn laʊd kləʊðz əz bɪɡ əz ə ˈhaʊs. hiː kʌm ɪn ə kɑː(ɑː) tuː bʌt ðə əʊld ˈleɪdi dɒn’tiː ˈɡet ðə ˈlaɪsns, kæn’tiː riːd ðə ˈnʌmbə(ɑː) ðæt ˈfɑː(ɑː) ɒf. ðɪs wɒz əˈbaʊt ə ˈaʊə(ɑː) ˈɑːftə(ɑː) juː wɒz ðeə(ɑː), ʃiː ˈsez. hiː ɡəʊz ɪn fɑːst ənd ɪz ɪn əˈbaʊt faɪv ˈmɪnɪts ˈəʊnli. dʒəst bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) hiː ˈɡets ˈbæk ɪn hɪz kɑː(ɑː) hiː teɪks ə bɪɡ ˈɡæt ˈaʊt ənd spɪnz ðə ˈtʃeɪmbə(ɑː).


“Oh, sure. That was you, wasn’t it? Well, Number Two was the Moose. Guy in loud clothes as big as a house. He come in a car too but the old lady don’t get the license, can’t read the number that far off. This was about a hour after you was there, she says. He goes in fast and is in about five minutes only. Just before he gets back in his car he takes a big gat out and spins the chamber.

 ˈaɪ ɡes ðæt’ˈes ˈwɒt ðə əʊld ˈleɪdi ˈsɔː hiː dʌn. ðæt’ˈes waɪ ʃiː kɔːlz ʌp. ʃiː dɒn’tiː hɪə(ɑː) nəʊ ʃɒts ðəʊ, ɪnˈsaɪd ðə ˈhaʊs.”
“ðæt mʌst həv biːn ə bɪɡ ˌdɪsəˈpoɪntmənt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.
“jeə. ə ˈnɪfti. rɪˈmaɪnd miː tuː lɑːf ɒn maɪ deɪ ɒf. ðə əʊld ˈleɪdi ˈmɪsɪz wʌn tuː. ðə praʊl ˈbɔɪz ɡəʊ daʊn ðeə(ɑː) ənd dɒn’tiː ˈɡet nəʊ ˈɑːnsə(ɑː) ɒn ðə dɔː(ɑː), ˈsəʊ ˈðeɪ wɔːk ɪn, ðə frʌnt dɔː(ɑː) nɒt ˈbiːɪŋ lɒkt. ˈnəʊbədi’ˈes ded ɒn ðə flɔː(ɑː).

 I guess that’s what the old lady saw he done. That’s why she calls up. She don’t hear no shots though, inside the house.”
“That must have been a big disappointment,” I said.
“Yeah. A nifty. Remind me to laugh on my day off. The old lady misses one too. The prowl boys go down there and don’t get no answer on the door, so they walk in, the front door not being locked. Nobody’s dead on the floor.

 ˈnəʊbədi’ˈes həʊm. ðə ˈflɔːiən deɪm hæz skɪpt ˈaʊt. ˈsəʊ ˈðeɪ stɒp baɪ nekst dɔː(ɑː) ənd tel ðə əʊld ˈleɪdi ənd ʃiː’ˈes sɔː(r) əz ə bɔɪl ɒn əˈkaʊnt əv ʃiː didn’tiː ˈsiː ðə ˈflɔːiən deɪm ɡəʊ ˈaʊt. ˈsəʊ ˈðeɪ rɪˈpɔːt ˈbæk ənd ɡəʊ ɒn əˈbaʊt ðə dʒɒb. ˈsəʊ əˈbaʊt ən ˈaʊə(ɑː), ˈmeɪbiː ˈaʊə(ɑː) ənd ə hɑːf ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ðæt, ðə əʊld ˈleɪdi fəʊnz ɪn əˈɡen ənd ˈsez ˈmɪsɪz. ˈflɔːiən ɪz həʊm əˈɡen.

 Nobody’s home. The Florian dame has skipped out. So they stop by next door and tell the old lady and she’s sore as a boil on account of she didn’t see the Florian dame go out. So they report back and go on about the job. So about an hour, maybe hour and a half after that, the old lady phones in again and says Mrs. Florian is home again.

 ˈsəʊ ˈðeɪ ɡɪv ðə kɔːl tuː miː ənd ˈaɪ ɑːsk hɜː(ɑː) ˈwɒt ˈmeɪks ðæt ɪmˈpɔːtnt ənd ʃiː hæŋz ʌp ɪn maɪ feɪs.”
ˈnəlti pɔːzd tuː kəˈlekt ə ˈlɪtl̩ breθ ənd weɪt fɔː(ɑː) maɪ ˈkɒments. ˈaɪ didn’tiː həv ˈeni. ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ə ˈməʊmənt hiː ˈwent ɒn ˈɡrʌmbl̩ɪŋ.
“ˈwɒt juː ˈmeɪk əv ɪt?”
“ˈnʌθɪŋ ˈmʌtʃ. ðə muːs wʊd bi ˈlaɪkli tuː ɡəʊ baɪ ðeə(ɑː), əv kɔːs. hiː mʌst həv nəʊn ˈmɪsɪz. ˈflɔːiən ˈprɪti wel.

 So they give the call to me and I ask her what makes that important and she hangs up in my face.”
Nulty paused to collect a little breath and wait for my comments. I didn’t have any. After a moment he went on grumbling.
“What you make of it?”
“Nothing much. The Moose would be likely to go by there, of course. He must have known Mrs. Florian pretty well.

 ˈnætʃrəli hiː wouldn’tiː stɪk əˈraʊnd ˈveri ˈlɒŋ. hiː wʊd bi əˈfreɪd ðə lɔː maɪt bi waɪz tuː ˈmɪsɪz. ˈflɔːiən.”
“ˈwɒt ˈaɪ ˈfɪɡə(ɑː),” ˈnəlti ˈsed ˈkɑːmli, “ˈmeɪbiː ˈaɪ ʃʊd ɡəʊ ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ənd ˈsiː hɜː(ɑː)—kaɪnd əv faɪnd ˈaʊt weə(ɑː) ʃiː ˈwent tuː.”
“ðæt’ˈes ə ɡʊd aɪˈdɪə,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ɪf juː kæn ˈɡet ˈsʌmbədi tuː lɪft juː ˈaʊt əv jɔː(ɑː) tʃeə(ɑː).”
“hʌ? əʊ, əˈnʌðə(ɑː) ˈnɪfti. ɪt dɒn’tiː ˈmeɪk ə lɒt əv ˈdɪfrəns ˈeni mɔː(ɑː) naʊ ðəʊ.

 Naturally he wouldn’t stick around very long. He would be afraid the law might be wise to Mrs. Florian.”
“What I figure,” Nulty said calmly, “Maybe I should go over and see her—kind of find out where she went to.”
“That’s a good idea,” I said. “If you can get somebody to lift you out of your chair.”
“Huh? Oh, another nifty. It don’t make a lot of difference any more now though.

 ˈaɪ ɡes ˈaɪ wʌn’tiː ˈbɒðə(ɑː).”
“ɔːl raɪt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “let’ˈes həv ɪt wɒtˈevə(ɑː) ɪt ɪz.”
hiː ˈtʃʌkl̩d. “wiː ˈɡɒt məˌlɔɪ ɔːl laɪnd ʌp. wiː ˈrɪəli ˈɡɒt hɪm ðɪs ˈtaɪm. wiː ˈmeɪk hɪm ət dʒəˈrɑːd, ˈhedɪd nɔːθ ɪn ə ˈrentɪd hæk. hiː gased ʌp ðeə(ɑː) ənd ðə ˈsɜːvɪs ˈsteɪʃn̩ ˈkɪd ˈrekəɡnaɪzd hɪm frəm ðə dɪˈskrɪpʃn̩ wiː ˈbrɔːdkɑːst ə waɪl ˈbæk. hiː ˈsed ˈevrɪθɪŋ dʒaɪbd ɪkˈsept məˌlɔɪ həd tʃeɪndʒd tuː ə dɑːk suːt.

 I guess I won’t bother.”
“All right,” I said. “Let’s have it whatever it is.”
He chuckled. “We got Malloy all lined up. We really got him this time. We make him at Girard, headed north in a rented hack. He gased up there and the service station kid recognized him from the description we broadcast a while back. He said everything jibed except Malloy had changed to a dark suit.

 wiː ˈɡɒt ˈkaʊnti ənd steɪt lɔː ɒn ɪt. ɪf hiː ɡəʊz ɒn nɔːθ wiː ˈɡet hɪm ət ðə venˈtʃɜːə laɪn, ənd ɪf hiː slaɪdz ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː ðə rɪdʒ ruːt, hiː hæz tuː stɒp ət Castaic fɔː(ɑː) hɪz tʃek ˈtɪkɪt. ɪf hiː dɒn’tiː stɒp, ˈðeɪ fəʊn əˈhed ənd ˈblɒk ðə rəʊd. wiː dɒn’tiː wɒnt nəʊ kɒps ʃɒt ʌp, ɪf wiː kæn help ɪt. ðæt ˈsaʊnd ɡʊd?”
“ɪt ˈsaʊndz ɔːl raɪt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.

 We got county and state law on it. If he goes on north we get him at the Ventura line, and if he slides over to the Ridge Route, he has to stop at Castaic for his check ticket. If he don’t stop, they phone ahead and block the road. We don’t want no cops shot up, if we can help it. That sound good?”
“It sounds all right,” I said.

 “ɪf ɪt ˈrɪəli ɪz məˌlɔɪ, ənd ɪf hiː dʌz ɪɡˈzæktli ˈwɒt juː ɪkˈspekt hɪm tuː duː.”
ˈnəlti klɪəd hɪz θrəʊt ˈkeəfəli. “jeə. ˈwɒt juː ˈduːɪŋ ɒn ɪt—dʒəst ɪn keɪs?”
“ˈnʌθɪŋ. waɪ ʃʊd ˈaɪ bi ˈduːɪŋ ˈeniθɪŋ ɒn ɪt?”
“juː ˈɡɒt əˈlɒŋ ˈprɪti ɡʊd wɪð ðæt ˈflɔːiən deɪm. ˈmeɪbiː ʃiː wʊd həv sʌm mɔː(ɑː) aɪˈdɪəz.”
“ɔːl juː niːd tuː faɪnd ˈaʊt ɪz ə fʊl ˈbɒtl̩,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.
“juː ˈhændl̩d hɜː(ɑː) rɪəl naɪs.

 “If it really is Malloy, and if he does exactly what you expect him to do.”
Nulty cleared his throat carefully. “Yeah. What you doing on it—just in case?”
“Nothing. Why should I be doing anything on it?”
“You got along pretty good with that Florian dame. Maybe she would have some more ideas.”
“All you need to find out is a full bottle,” I said.
“You handled her real nice.

 ˈmeɪbiː juː ˈɔːt tuː kaɪnd əv spend ə ˈlɪtl̩ mɔː(ɑː) ˈtaɪm ɒn hɜː(ɑː).”
“ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt ðɪs wɒz ə pəˈliːs dʒɒb.”
“əʊ ʃʊə(ɑː). wɒz jɔː(ɑː) aɪˈdɪə əˈbaʊt ðə ɡɜːl ðəʊ.”
“ðæt ˈsiːmz tuː bi ˈaʊt—ənˈles ðə ˈflɔːiən ˈwʊmən ɪz ˈlaɪɪŋ əˈbaʊt ɪt.”
“deɪmz laɪ əˈbaʊt ˈeniθɪŋ—dʒəst fɔː(ɑː) ˈpræktɪs,” ˈnəlti ˈsed ˈɡrɪmli. “juː ain’tiː rɪəl ˈbɪzi, hʌ?”
“ˈaɪ’ˈviː ˈɡɒt ə dʒɒb tuː duː. ɪt keɪm ɪn sɪns ˈaɪ ˈsɔː juː. ə dʒɒb weə(ɑː) ˈaɪ ˈɡet peɪd. ˈaɪ’em ˈsɒri.

 Maybe you ought to kind of spend a little more time on her.”
“I thought this was a police job.”
“Oh sure. Was your idea about the girl though.”
“That seems to be out—unless the Florian woman is lying about it.”
“Dames lie about anything—just for practice,” Nulty said grimly. “You ain’t real busy, huh?”
“I’ve got a job to do. It came in since I saw you. A job where I get paid. I’m sorry.

”
“ˈwɔːkɪŋ ˈaʊt, hʌ?”
“ˈaɪ wouldn’tiː ˈpʊt ɪt ðæt ˈweɪ. ˈaɪ dʒəst həv tuː ˈwɜːk tuː ɜːn ə ˈlɪvɪŋ.”
“ˈoki, pæl. ɪf ðæt’ˈes ðə ˈweɪ juː fiːl əˈbaʊt ɪt, ˈoki.”
“ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː fiːl ˈeni ˈweɪ əˈbaʊt ɪt,” ˈaɪ ˈɔːlməʊst jeld. “ˈaɪ dʒəst dɒn’tiː həv ˈtaɪm tuː stuːdʒ fɔː(ɑː) juː ɔː(ɑː) ˈeni ˈʌðə(ɑː) kɒp.”
“ˈoki, ˈɡet sɔː(r),” ˈnəlti ˈsed, ənd hʌŋ ʌp.

”
“Walking out, huh?”
“I wouldn’t put it that way. I just have to work to earn a living.”
“Okey, pal. If that’s the way you feel about it, okey.”
“I don’t feel any way about it,” I almost yelled. “I just don’t have time to stooge for you or any other cop.”
“Okey, get sore,” Nulty said, and hung up.


ˈaɪ held ðə ded fəʊn ənd snɑːld ˈɪntə ɪt: “ˌsevnˈtiːn ˈhʌndrəd ənd ˈfɪfti kɒps ɪn ðɪs taʊn ənd ˈðeɪ wɒnt miː tuː duː ðeə(ɑː) leɡ ˈwɜːk fɔː(ɑː) ðem.”
ˈaɪ drɒpt ðə fəʊn ˈɪntə ɪts ˈkreɪdl̩ ənd tʊk əˈnʌðə(ɑː) drɪŋk frəm ðə ˈɒfɪs ˈbɒtl̩.
ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ə waɪl ˈaɪ ˈwent daʊn tuː ðə ˈlɒbi əv ðə ˈbɪldɪŋ tuː baɪ ən ˈiːvn̩ɪŋ ˈpeɪpə(ɑː). ˈnəlti wɒz raɪt ɪn wʌn ˈθɪŋ ət liːst.


I held the dead phone and snarled into it: “Seventeen hundred and fifty cops in this town and they want me to do their leg work for them.”
I dropped the phone into its cradle and took another drink from the office bottle.
After a while I went down to the lobby of the building to buy an evening paper. Nulty was right in one thing at least.

 ðə mantˈɡəmri ˈkɪlɪŋ hadn’tiː ˈiːvn̩ ˈmeɪd ðə wɒnt-æd ˈsekʃn̩ ˈsəʊ ˈfɑː(ɑː).
ˈaɪ left ðə ˈɒfɪs əˈɡen ɪn ˈtaɪm fɔː(ɑː) ən ˈɜːli ˈdɪnə(ɑː).

 The Montgomery killing hadn’t even made the want-ad section so far.
I left the office again in time for an early dinner.

8
ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt daʊn tuː Montemar ˈvɪstə əz ðə laɪt bɪˈɡæn tuː feɪd, bʌt ðeə(ɑː) wɒz stɪl ə faɪn ˈspɑːkl̩ ɒn ðə ˈwɔːtə(ɑː) ənd ðə sɜːf wɒz ˈbreɪkɪŋ ˈfɑː(ɑː) ˈaʊt ɪn ˈlɒŋ smuːð kɜːvz. ə ɡruːp əv ˈpelɪkənz wɒz ˈflaɪɪŋ ˈbɒmə(ɑː) fɔːˈmeɪʃn̩ dʒəst ˈʌndə(ɑː) ðə ˈkriːmɪŋ lɪp əv ðə weɪvz.
