---
title: Part1
date: 2018-10-25 08:00:19 +0200
categories: []
tags: []
---
ɪt wɒz wʌn əv ðə mɪkst ˈblɒks ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ɒn ˈsentrəl ˈævənjuː, ðə ˈblɒks ðæt ə(ɑː) nɒt ˈdʒet ɔːl ˈniːɡrəʊ. ˈaɪ həd dʒəst kʌm ˈaʊt əv ə θriː-tʃeə(ɑː) ˈbɑːbə(ɑː) ʃɒp weə(ɑː) ən ˈeɪdʒənsi ˈθɔːt ə rɪˈliːf ˈbɑːbə(ɑː) ˈneɪmd ˌdɪˈmiːtrios Aleidis maɪt bi ˈwɜːkɪŋ. ɪt wɒz ə smɔːl ˈmætə(ɑː). hɪz waɪf ˈsed ʃiː wɒz ˈwɪlɪŋ tuː spend ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈmʌni tuː həv hɪm kʌm həʊm.  
ˈaɪ ˈnevə(ɑː) faʊnd hɪm, bʌt ˈmɪsɪz. Aleidis ˈnevə(ɑː) peɪd miː ˈeni ˈmʌni ˈaɪðə(ɑː).  
  
IT WAS ONE OF THE MIXED BLOCKS over on Central Avenue, the blocks that are not yet all Negro. I had just come out of a three-chair barber shop where an agency thought a relief barber named Dimitrios Aleidis might be working. It was a small matter. His wife said she was willing to spend a little money to have him come home.  
I never found him, but Mrs. Aleidis never paid me any money either.  
  
  
ɪt wɒz ə wɔːm deɪ, ˈɔːlməʊst ðə end əv mɑːtʃ, ənd ˈaɪ stʊd ˌaʊtˈsaɪd ðə ˈbɑːbə(ɑː) ʃɒp ˈlʊkɪŋ ʌp ət ðə ˈdʒʌtɪŋ ˈniːɒn saɪn əv ə ˈsekənd flɔː(ɑː) daɪn ənd daɪs ɪmˈpɔːrɪəm kɔːld ˈflɔːiən’ˈes. ə mæn wɒz ˈlʊkɪŋ ʌp ət ðə saɪn tuː. hiː wɒz ˈlʊkɪŋ ʌp ət ðə ˈdʌsti ˈwɪndəʊz wɪð ə sɔːt əv ekˈstætɪk fɪksɪti əv ɪkˈspreʃn̩, ˈlaɪk ə ˈhəŋki ˈɪmɪɡrənt ˈkætʃɪŋ hɪz ˈfɜːst saɪt əv ðə ˈstætʃuː əv ˈlɪbəti.  
  
  
It was a warm day, almost the end of March, and I stood outside the barber shop looking up at the jutting neon sign of a second floor dine and dice emporium called Florian’s. A man was looking up at the sign too. He was looking up at the dusty windows with a sort of ecstatic fixity of expression, like a hunky immigrant catching his first sight of the Statue of Liberty.  
  
 hiː wɒz ə bɪɡ mæn bʌt nɒt mɔː(ɑː) ðæn sɪks fiːt faɪv ˈɪntʃɪz tɔːl ənd nɒt ˈwaɪdə(ɑː) ðæn ə bɪə(ɑː) trʌk. hiː wɒz əˈbaʊt ten fiːt əˈweɪ frəm miː. hɪz ɑːmz hʌŋ luːs ət hɪz eɪdz ənd ə fəˈɡɒtn̩ sɪˈɡɑː(ɑː) sməʊkt bɪˈhaɪnd hɪz ɪˈnɔːməs ˈfɪŋɡəz.  
slɪm ˈkwaɪət ˈniːɡrəʊz pɑːst ʌp ənd daʊn ðə striːt ənd steəd ət hɪm wɪð ˈdɑːtɪŋ saɪd ˈɡlɑːnsɪz. hiː wɒz wɜːθ ˈlʊkɪŋ ət.  
  
 He was a big man but not more than six feet five inches tall and not wider than a beer truck. He was about ten feet away from me. His arms hung loose at his aides and a forgotten cigar smoked behind his enormous fingers.  
Slim quiet Negroes passed up and down the street and stared at him with darting side glances. He was worth looking at.  
  
 hiː wɔː(ɑː) ə ˈʃæɡi borsalino hæt, ə rʌf ɡreɪ spɔːts ˈkəʊt wɪð waɪt ɡɒlf bɔːlz ɒn ɪt fɔː(ɑː) ˈbʌtn̩z, ə braʊn ʃɜːt, ə ˈjeləʊ taɪ, ˈpliːtɪd ɡreɪ ˈflænl̩ slæks ənd ˈælɪɡeɪtə(ɑː) ʃuːz wɪð waɪt ɪkˈspləʊʒn̩z ɒn ðə təʊz. frəm hɪz ˈaʊtə(r) brest ˈpɒkɪt kæˈskeɪdɪd ə ʃəʊ ˈhæŋkətʃɪf əv ðə seɪm ˈbrɪlɪənt ˈjeləʊ əz hɪz taɪ.  
  
 He wore a shaggy borsalino hat, a rough gray sports coat with white golf balls on it for buttons, a brown shirt, a yellow tie, pleated gray flannel slacks and alligator shoes with white explosions on the toes. From his outer breast pocket cascaded a show handkerchief of the same brilliant yellow as his tie.  
  
 ðeə(ɑː) wɜː(ɑː) ə ˈkʌpl̩ əv ˈkʌlərd ˈfeðəz tʌkt ˈɪntə ðə bænd əv hɪz hæt, bʌt hiː didn’tiː ˈrɪəli niːd ðem. ˈiːvn̩ ɒn ˈsentrəl ˈævənjuː, nɒt ðə ˈkwaɪətɪst drest striːt ɪn ðə wɜːld, hiː lʊkt əˈbaʊt əz ˌɪnkənˈspɪkjʊəs əz ə təˈræntjʊlə ɒn ə slaɪs əv ˈeɪndʒəl fuːd.  
hɪz skɪn wɒz peɪl ənd hiː ˈniːdɪd ə ʃeɪv. hiː wʊd ˈɔːlweɪz niːd ə ʃeɪv.  
  
 There were a couple of colored feathers tucked into the band of his hat, but he didn’t really need them. Even on Central Avenue, not the quietest dressed street in the world, he looked about as inconspicuous as a tarantula on a slice of angel food.  
His skin was pale and he needed a shave. He would always need a shave.  
  
 hiː həd ˈkɜːli blæk heə(ɑː) ənd ˈhevi ˈaɪbraʊz ðæt ˈɔːlməʊst met ˈəʊvə(ɑː) hɪz θɪk nəʊz. hɪz ɪəz wɜː(ɑː) smɔːl ənd niːt fɔː(ɑː) ə mæn əv ðæt saɪz ənd hɪz aɪz bæd ə ʃaɪn kləʊz tuː ˈtɪəz ðæt ɡreɪ aɪz ˈɒfn̩ siːm tuː həv. hiː stʊd ˈlaɪk ə ˈstætʃuː, ənd ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ə ˈlɒŋ ˈtaɪm hiː smaɪld.  
hiː muːvd ˈsləʊli əˈkrɒs ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk tuː ðə ˈdʌbl̩ ˈswɪndʒɪŋ dɔːz wɪtʃ ʃʌt ɒf ðə steəz tuː ðə ˈsekənd flɔː(ɑː).  
  
 He had curly black hair and heavy eyebrows that almost met over his thick nose. His ears were small and neat for a man of that size and his eyes bad a shine close to tears that gray eyes often seem to have. He stood like a statue, and after a long time he smiled.  
He moved slowly across the sidewalk to the double swinging doors which shut off the stairs to the second floor.  
  
 hiː pʊʃt ðem ˈəʊpən, kɑːst ə kuːl ɪkˈspreʃnləs ɡlɑːns ʌp ənd daʊn ðə striːt, ənd muːvd ɪnˈsaɪd. ɪf hiː həd biːn ə ˈsmɔːlə(r) mæn ənd mɔː(ɑː) ˈkwaɪətli drest, ˈaɪ maɪt həv ˈθɔːt hiː wɒz ˈɡəʊɪŋ tuː pʊl ə stɪk-ʌp. bʌt nɒt ɪn ðəʊz kləʊðz, ənd nɒt wɪð ðæt hæt, ənd ðæt freɪm.  
ðə dɔːz swʌŋ ˈbæk ˈaʊtwədz ənd ˈɔːlməʊst ˈsetl̩d tuː ə stɒp.  
  
 He pushed them open, cast a cool expressionless glance up and down the street, and moved inside. If he had been a smaller man and more quietly dressed, I might have thought he was going to pull a stick-up. But not in those clothes, and not with that hat, and that frame.  
The doors swung back outwards and almost settled to a stop.  
  
 bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) ˈðeɪ həd ɪnˈtaɪəli stɒpt ˈmuːvɪŋ ˈðeɪ ˈəʊpənd əˈɡen, ˈvaɪələntli, ˈaʊtwədz. ˈsʌmθɪŋ seɪld əˈkrɒs ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk ənd ˈlændɪd ɪn ðə ˈɡʌtə(ɑː) bɪˈtwiːn ˈtuː pɑːkt kɑːz. ɪt ˈlændɪd ɒn ɪts hændz ənd niːz ənd ˈmeɪd ə haɪ ˈkiːnɪŋ nɔɪz ˈlaɪk ə ˈkɔːnəd ræt. ɪt ˈɡɒt ʌp ˈsləʊli, rɪˈtriːvd ə hæt ənd stept ˈbæk ˈɒntə ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk.  
  
 Before they had entirely stopped moving they opened again, violently, outwards. Something sailed across the sidewalk and landed in the gutter between two parked cars. It landed on its hands and knees and made a high keening noise like a cornered rat. It got up slowly, retrieved a hat and stepped back onto the sidewalk.  
  
 ɪt wɒz ə θɪn, ˈnærəʊ-ˈʃəʊldəd braʊn juːθ ɪn ə ˈlaɪlək ˈkʌlərd suːt ənd ə kɑːˈneɪʃn̩. ɪt həd slɪk blæk heə(ɑː). ɪt kept ɪts maʊθ ˈəʊpən ənd waɪnd fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈməʊmənt. ˈpiːpl̩ steəd ət ɪt ˈveɪɡli. ðen ɪt ˈsetl̩d ɪts hæt ˈdʒɔːntɪli, ˈsaɪdl̩d ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː ðə wɔːl ənd ˈwɔːkt ˈsaɪləntli spleɪ-ˈfʊtɪd ɒf əˈlɒŋ ðə ˈblɒk.  
ˈsaɪləns. ˈtræfɪk rɪˈzjuːmd. ˈaɪ ˈwɔːkt əˈlɒŋ tuː ðə ˈdʌbl̩ dɔːz ənd stʊd ɪn frʌnt əv ðem.  
  
 It was a thin, narrow-shouldered brown youth in a lilac colored suit and a carnation. It had slick black hair. It kept its mouth open and whined for a moment. People stared at it vaguely. Then it settled its hat jauntily, sidled over to the wall and walked silently splay-footed off along the block.  
Silence. Traffic resumed. I walked along to the double doors and stood in front of them.  
  
 ˈðeɪ wɜː(ɑː) ˈməʊʃnləs naʊ. ɪt wasn’tiː ˈeni əv maɪ ˈbɪznəs. ˈsəʊ ˈaɪ pʊʃt ðem ˈəʊpən ənd lʊkt ɪn.  
ə hænd ˈaɪ kʊd həv sæt ɪn keɪm ˈaʊt əv ðə ˈdɪmnəs ənd tʊk həʊld əv maɪ ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː) ənd skwɒʃt ɪt tuː ə pʌlp. ðen ðə hænd muːvd miː θruː ðə dɔːz ənd ˈkæʒʊəli ˈlɪftɪd miː ʌp ə step. ðə lɑːdʒ feɪs lʊkt ət miː. ə diːp sɒft vɔɪs ˈsed tuː miː, ˈkwaɪətli:  
“sməʊks ɪn hɪə(ɑː), hʌ? taɪ ðæt fɔː(ɑː) miː, pæl.  
  
 They were motionless now. It wasn’t any of my business. So I pushed them open and looked in.  
A hand I could have sat in came out of the dimness and took hold of my shoulder and squashed it to a pulp. Then the hand moved me through the doors and casually lifted me up a step. The large face looked at me. A deep soft voice said to me, quietly:  
“Smokes in here, huh? Tie that for me, pal.  
  
”  
ɪt wɒz dɑːk ɪn ðeə(ɑː). ɪt wɒz ˈkwaɪət. frəm ʌp əˈbʌv keɪm veɪɡ ˈsaʊndz əv hjuːˈmænɪti, bʌt wiː wɜː(ɑː) əˈləʊn ɒn ðə steəz. ðə bɪɡ mæn steəd ət miː ˈsɒləmli ənd ˈwent ɒn ˈrekɪŋ maɪ ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː) wɪð hɪz hænd.  
“ə dinge,” hiː ˈsed. “ˈaɪ dʒəst ˈθrəʊn hɪm ˈaʊt. juː ˈsiːn miː ˈθrəʊ hɪm ˈaʊt?”  
hiː let ɡəʊ əv maɪ ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː). ðə bəʊn didn’tiː siːm tuː bi ˈbrəʊkən, bʌt ðə ɑːm wɒz ˈnʌm.  
  
”  
It was dark in there. It was quiet. From up above came vague sounds of humanity, but we were alone on the stairs. The big man stared at me solemnly and went on wrecking my shoulder with his hand.  
“A dinge,” he said. “I just thrown him out. You seen me throw him out?”  
He let go of my shoulder. The bone didn’t seem to be broken, but the arm was numb.  
  
  
“ɪt’ˈes ðæt kaɪnd əv ə ˈpleɪs,” ˈaɪ ˈsed, ˈrʌbɪŋ maɪ ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː). “ˈwɒt dɪd juː ɪkˈspekt?”  
“dɒn’tiː ˈseɪ ðæt, pæl,” ðə bɪɡ mæn pɜːd ˈsɒftli, ˈlaɪk fɔː(ɑː) ˈtaɪɡəz ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ˈdɪnə(ɑː). “ˈvelmə ˈjuːzd tuː ˈwɜːk hɪə(ɑː). ˈlɪtl̩ ˈvelmə.”  
hiː riːtʃt fɔː(ɑː) maɪ ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː) əˈɡen. ˈaɪ ˈtraɪd tuː dɒdʒ hɪm bʌt hiː wɒz əz fɑːst əz ə kæt. hiː bɪˈɡæn tuː tʃuː maɪ ˈmʌsl̩z ʌp sʌm mɔː(ɑː) wɪð hɪz ˈaɪən ˈfɪŋɡəz.  
“jeə,” hiː ˈsed. “ˈlɪtl̩ ˈvelmə.  
  
  
“It’s that kind of a place,” I said, rubbing my shoulder. “What did you expect?”  
“Don’t say that, pal,” the big man purred softly, like four tigers after dinner. “Velma used to work here. Little Velma.”  
He reached for my shoulder again. I tried to dodge him but he was as fast as a cat. He began to chew my muscles up some more with his iron fingers.  
“Yeah,” he said. “Little Velma.  
  
 ˈaɪ ain’tiː ˈsiːn hɜː(ɑː) ɪn eɪt ˈjiəz. juː ˈseɪ ðɪs hɪə(ɑː) ɪz ə dinge dʒɔɪnt?”  
ˈaɪ krəʊkt ðæt ɪt wɒz.  
hiː ˈlɪftɪd miː ʌp ˈtuː mɔː(ɑː) steps. ˈaɪ rentʃt maɪˈself luːs ənd ˈtraɪd fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈelbəʊ ruːm. ˈaɪ wasn’tiː ˈweərɪŋ ə ɡʌn. ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ˌdɪˈmiːtrios Aleidis hadn’tiː siːmd tuː rɪˈkwaɪə(r) ɪt. ˈaɪ ˈdaʊtɪd ɪf ɪt wʊd duː miː ˈeni ɡʊd. ðə bɪɡ mæn wʊd ˈprɒbəbli teɪk ɪt əˈweɪ frəm miː ənd iːt ɪt.  
  
 I ain’t seen her in eight years. You say this here is a dinge joint?”  
I croaked that it was.  
He lifted me up two more steps. I wrenched myself loose and tried for a little elbow room. I wasn’t wearing a gun. Looking for Dimitrios Aleidis hadn’t seemed to require it. I doubted if it would do me any good. The big man would probably take it away from me and eat it.  
  
  
“ɡəʊ ɒn ʌp ənd ˈsiː fɔː(ɑː) jɔːˈself,” ˈaɪ ˈsed, ˈtraɪɪŋ tuː kiːp ðə ˈæɡəni ˈaʊt əv maɪ vɔɪs.  
hiː let ɡəʊ əv miː əˈɡen. hiː lʊkt ət miː wɪð ə sɔːt əv ˈsædnəs ɪn hɪz ɡreɪ aɪz. “ˈaɪ’em feelin’ ɡʊd,” hiː ˈsed. “ˈaɪ wouldn’tiː wɒnt ˈenibɒdi tuː fʌs wɪð miː. let’ˈes juː ənd miː ɡəʊ ɒn ʌp ənd ˈmeɪbiː ˈnɪbl̩ ə ˈkʌpl̩.”  
“ˈðeɪ wʌn’tiː sɜːv juː. ˈaɪ təʊld juː ɪt’ˈes ə ˈkʌlərd dʒɔɪnt.  
  
  
“Go on up and see for yourself,” I said, trying to keep the agony out of my voice.  
He let go of me again. He looked at me with a sort of sadness in his gray eyes. “I’m feelin’ good,” he said. “I wouldn’t want anybody to fuss with me. Let’s you and me go on up and maybe nibble a couple.”  
“They won’t serve you. I told you it’s a colored joint.  
  
”  
“ˈaɪ ain’tiː ˈsiːn ˈvelmə ɪn eɪt ˈjiəz,” hiː ˈsed ɪn hɪz diːp sæd vɔɪs. “eɪt ˈlɒŋ ˈjiəz sɪns ˈaɪ ˈsed ˈɡʊdˌbaɪ. ʃiː ain’tiː rəʊt tuː miː ɪn sɪks. bʌt ʃiː’laɪnz həv ə ˈriːzən. ʃiː ˈjuːzd tuː ˈwɜːk hɪə(ɑː). kjuːt ʃiː wɒz. let’ˈes juː ənd miː ɡəʊ ɒn ʌp, hʌ?”  
“ɔːl raɪt,” ˈaɪ jeld. “ˈaɪ’laɪnz ɡəʊ ʌp wɪð juː. dʒəst leɪ ɒf ˈkærɪɪŋ miː. let miː wɔːk. ˈaɪ’em faɪn. ˈaɪ’em ɔːl ɡrəʊn ʌp. ˈaɪ ɡəʊ tuː ðə ˈbɑːθruːm əˈləʊn ənd ˈevrɪθɪŋ.  
  
”  
“I ain’t seen Velma in eight years,” he said in his deep sad voice. “Eight long years since I said goodby. She ain’t wrote to me in six. But she’ll have a reason. She used to work here. Cute she was. Let’s you and me go on up, huh?”  
“All right,” I yelled. “I’ll go up with you. Just lay off carrying me. Let me walk. I’m fine. I’m all grown up. I go to the bathroom alone and everything.  
  
 dʒəst dɒn’tiː ˈkæri miː.”  
“ˈlɪtl̩ ˈvelmə ˈjuːzd tuː ˈwɜːk hɪə(ɑː),” hiː ˈsed ˈdʒentli. hiː wasn’tiː ˈlɪsn̩ɪŋ tuː miː.  
wiː ˈwent ɒn ʌp ðə steəz. hiː let miː wɔːk. maɪ ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː) eɪkt. ðə ˈbæk əv maɪ nek wɒz wet.  
  
 Just don’t carry me.”  
“Little Velma used to work here,” he said gently. He wasn’t listening to me.  
We went on up the stairs. He let me walk. My shoulder ached. The back of my neck was wet.  
  
2  
ˈtuː mɔː(ɑː) swɪŋ dɔːz kləʊzd ɒf ðə hed əv ðə steəz frəm wɒtˈevə(ɑː) wɒz bɪˈjɒnd. ðə bɪɡ mæn pʊʃt ðem ˈəʊpən ˈlaɪtli wɪð hɪz ˈθʌmz ənd wiː ˈwent ˈɪntə ðə ruːm.  
  
2  
Two more swing doors closed off the head of the stairs from whatever was beyond. The big man pushed them open lightly with his thumbs and we went into the room.  
  
 ɪt wɒz ə ˈlɒŋ ˈnærəʊ ruːm, nɒt ˈveri kliːn, nɒt ˈveri braɪt, nɒt ˈveri ˈtʃɪəfəl. ɪn ðə ˈkɔːnə(ɑː) ə ɡruːp əv ˈniːɡrəʊz ˈtʃɑːntɪd ənd ˈtʃætəd ɪn ðə kəʊn əv laɪt ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ə kræp ˈteɪbl̩. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə bɑː(ɑː) əˈɡenst ðə raɪt hænd wɔːl. ðə rest əv ðə ruːm wɒz ˈməʊstli smɔːl ˈraʊnd ˈteɪbl̩z. ðeə(ɑː) wɜː(ɑː) ə fjuː ˈkʌstəməz, men ənd ˈwɪmɪn, ɔːl ˈniːɡrəʊz.  
  
 It was a long narrow room, not very clean, not very bright, not very cheerful. In the corner a group of Negroes chanted and chattered in the cone of light over a crap table. There was a bar against the right hand wall. The rest of the room was mostly small round tables. There were a few customers, men and women, all Negroes.  
  
  
ðə ˈtʃɑːntɪŋ ət ðə kræp ˈteɪbl̩ stɒpt ded ənd ðə laɪt ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ɪt dʒɜːkt ˈaʊt. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈsʌdn̩ ˈsaɪləns əz ˈhevi əz ə ˈwɔːtə(ɑː)-lɒɡd bəʊt. aɪz lʊkt ət ˈəs, ˈtʃesnʌt ˈkʌlərd aɪz, set ɪn ˈfeɪsɪz ðæt reɪndʒd frəm ɡreɪ tuː diːp blæk. hedz tɜːnd ˈsləʊli ənd ðə aɪz ɪn ðem ˈɡlɪsn̩d ənd steəd ɪn ðə ded ˈeɪliən ˈsaɪləns əv əˈnʌðə(ɑː) reɪs.  
  
  
The chanting at the crap table stopped dead and the light over it jerked out. There was a sudden silence as heavy as a water-logged boat. Eyes looked at us, chestnut colored eyes, set in faces that ranged from gray to deep black. Heads turned slowly and the eyes in them glistened and stared in the dead alien silence of another race.  
  
  
ə lɑːdʒ, θɪk-nekt ˈniːɡrəʊ wɒz ˈliːnɪŋ əˈɡenst ðə end əv ðə bɑː(ɑː) wɪð pɪŋk ˈɡɑːtəz ɒn hɪz ʃɜːt sliːvz ənd pɪŋk ənd waɪt səˈspendəz ˈkrɒsɪŋ hɪz brɔːd ˈbæk. hiː həd ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) ˈrɪtn̩ ɔːl ˈəʊvə(ɑː) hɪm. hiː ˈpʊt hɪz ˈlɪftɪd fʊt daʊn ˈsləʊli ənd tɜːnd ˈsləʊli ənd steəd ət ˈəs, ˈspredɪŋ hɪz fiːt ˈdʒentli ənd ˈmuːvɪŋ ə brɔːd tʌŋ əˈlɒŋ hɪz lɪps.  
  
  
A large, thick-necked Negro was leaning against the end of the bar with pink garters on his shirt sleeves and pink and white suspenders crossing his broad back. He had bouncer written all over him. He put his lifted foot down slowly and turned slowly and stared at us, spreading his feet gently and moving a broad tongue along his lips.  
  
 hiː həd ə ˈbætəd feɪs ðæt lʊkt əz ɪf ɪt həd biːn hɪt baɪ ˈevrɪθɪŋ bʌt ðə ˈbʌkɪt əv ə ˈdræˌɡlaɪn. ɪt wɒz skɑːd, ˈflætn̩d, ˈθɪkənd, ˈtʃekəd, ənd welted. ɪt wɒz ə feɪs ðæt həd ˈnʌθɪŋ tuː fɪə(ɑː). ˈevrɪθɪŋ həd biːn dʌn tuː ɪt ðæt ˈenibɒdi kʊd ˈθɪŋk əv.  
ðə ʃɔːt ˈkrɪŋkl̩d heə(ɑː) həd ə tʌtʃ əv ɡreɪ. wʌn ɪə(ɑː) həd lɒst ðə ləʊb.  
ðə ˈniːɡrəʊ wɒz ˈhevi ənd waɪd.  
  
 He had a battered face that looked as if it had been hit by everything but the bucket of a dragline. It was scarred, flattened, thickened, checkered, and welted. It was a face that had nothing to fear. Everything had been done to it that anybody could think of.  
The short crinkled hair had a touch of gray. One ear had lost the lobe.  
The Negro was heavy and wide.  
  
 hiː həd bɪɡ ˈhevi leɡz ənd ˈðeɪ lʊkt ə ˈlɪtl̩ baʊd, wɪtʃ ɪz ʌnˈjuːʒʊəl ɪn ə ˈniːɡrəʊ. hiː muːvd hɪz tʌŋ sʌm mɔː(ɑː) ənd smaɪld ənd muːvd hɪz ˈbɒdi. hiː keɪm təˈwɔːdz ˈəs ɪn ə luːs ˈfaɪtə(ɑː)’ˈes kraʊtʃ. ðə bɪɡ mæn ˈweɪtɪd fɔː(ɑː) hɪm ˈsaɪləntli.  
ðə ˈniːɡrəʊ wɪð ðə pɪŋk ˈɡɑːtəz ɒn hɪz ɑːmz ˈpʊt ə ˈmæsɪv braʊn hænd əˈɡenst ðə bɪɡ mæn’ˈes tʃest. lɑːdʒ əz ɪt wɒz, ðə hænd lʊkt ˈlaɪk ə stʌd. ðə bɪɡ mæn didn’tiː muːv.  
  
 He had big heavy legs and they looked a little bowed, which is unusual in a Negro. He moved his tongue some more and smiled and moved his body. He came towards us in a loose fighter’s crouch. The big man waited for him silently.  
The Negro with the pink garters on his arms put a massive brown hand against the big man’s chest. Large as it was, the hand looked like a stud. The big man didn’t move.  
  
 ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) smaɪld ˈdʒentli.  
“nəʊ waɪt fəʊks, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː). Jes’ ˌefˈəʊ’ ðə ˈkʌlərd ˈpiːpl̩. ˈaɪ’sə ˈsɒri.”  
ðə bɪɡ mæn muːvd hɪz smɔːl sæd ɡreɪ aɪz ənd lʊkt əˈraʊnd ðə ruːm. hɪz tʃiːks flʌʃt ə ˈlɪtl̩. “ʃaɪn bɒks,” bi ˈsed anɡrəli, ˈʌndə(ɑː) hɪz breθ. hiː reɪzd hɪz vɔɪs. “weə(ɑː)’ˈes ˈvelmə ət?” hiː ˈɑːskt ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː).  
ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) didn’tiː kwaɪt lɑːf.  
  
 The bouncer smiled gently.  
“No white folks, brother. Jes’ fo’ the colored people. I’se sorry.”  
The big man moved his small sad gray eyes and looked around the room. His cheeks flushed a little. “Shine box,” be said angrily, under his breath. He raised his voice. “Where’s Velma at?” he asked the bouncer.  
The bouncer didn’t quite laugh.  
  
 hiː ˈstʌdɪd ðə bɪɡ mæn’ˈes kləʊðz, hɪz braʊn ʃɜːt ənd ˈjeləʊ taɪ, hɪz rʌf ɡreɪ ˈkəʊt ənd ðə waɪt ɡɒlf bɔːlz ɒn ɪt. hiː muːvd hɪz θɪk hed əˈraʊnd ˈdelɪkətli ənd ˈstʌdɪd ɔːl ðɪs frəm ˈveərɪəs ˈæŋɡl̩z. hiː lʊkt daʊn ət ðə ˈælɪɡeɪtə(ɑː) ʃuːz. hiː ˈtʃʌkl̩d ˈlaɪtli. hiː siːmd əˈmjuːzd. ˈaɪ felt ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈsɒri fɔː(ɑː) hɪm. hiː spəʊk ˈsɒftli əˈɡen.  
“ˈvelmə juː ˈsez? nəʊ ˈvelmə heah, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː).  
  
 He studied the big man’s clothes, his brown shirt and yellow tie, his rough gray coat and the white golf balls on it. He moved his thick head around delicately and studied all this from various angles. He looked down at the alligator shoes. He chuckled lightly. He seemed amused. I felt a little sorry for him. He spoke softly again.  
“Velma you says? No Velma heah, brother.  
  
 nəʊ huːtʃ, nəʊ ɡælz, nəʊ ˈnʌθɪŋ. Jes’ ðə skræm, waɪt ˌbɔɪ, jes’ ðə skræm.”  
“ˈvelmə ˈjuːzd tuː ˈwɜːk hɪə(ɑː),” ðə bɪɡ mæn ˈsed. hiː spəʊk ˈɔːlməʊst ˈdriːmɪli, əz ɪf hiː wɒz ɔːl baɪ hɪmˈself, ˈaʊt ɪn ðə wʊdz, ˈpɪkɪŋ ˈdʒɒni-dʒʌmp-ʌps. ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt maɪ ˈhæŋkətʃɪf ˈaʊt ənd waɪpt ðə ˈbæk əv maɪ nek əˈɡen.  
ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) lɑːft sʌdn̩li. “Shuah,” hiː ˈsed, ˈθrəʊɪŋ ə kwɪk lʊk ˈbæk ˈəʊvə(ɑː) hɪz ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː) ət hɪz ˈpʌblɪk.  
  
 No hooch, no gals, no nothing. Jes’ the scram, white boy, jes’ the scram.”  
“Velma used to work here,” the big man said. He spoke almost dreamily, as if he was all by himself, out in the woods, picking johnny-jump-ups. I got my handkerchief out and wiped the back of my neck again.  
The bouncer laughed suddenly. “Shuah,” he said, throwing a quick look back over his shoulder at his public.  
  
 “ˈvelmə ˈjuːzd tuː ˈwɜːk heah. bʌt ˈvelmə dɒn’tiː ˈwɜːk heah nəʊ məʊ’. ʃiː dʌn reti’ed. hɔː, hɔː.”  
“kaɪnd əv teɪk jɔː(ɑː) goddamned mɪt ɒf maɪ ʃɜːt,” ðə bɪɡ mæn ˈsed.  
ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) fraʊnd. hiː wɒz nɒt ˈjuːzd tuː ˈbiːɪŋ ˈtɔːkt tuː ˈlaɪk ðæt. hiː tʊk hɪz hænd ɒf ðə ʃɜːt ənd ˈdʌbl̩d ɪt ˈɪntə ə fɪst əˈbaʊt ðə saɪz ənd ˈkʌlər əv ə lɑːdʒ ˈeɡplɑːnt.  
  
 “Velma used to work heah. But Velma don’t work heah no mo’. She done reti’ed. Haw, Haw.”  
“Kind of take your goddamned mitt off my shirt,” the big man said.  
The bouncer frowned. He was not used to being talked to like that. He took his hand off the shirt and doubled it into a fist about the size and color of a large eggplant.  
  
 hiː həd hɪz dʒɒb, hɪz ˌrepjʊˈteɪʃn̩ fɔː(ɑː) ˈtʌfnəs, hɪz ˈpʌblɪk ɪˈstiːm tuː kənˈsɪdə(ɑː). hiː kənˈsɪdəd ðem fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈsekənd ənd ˈmeɪd ə mɪˈsteɪk. hiː swʌŋ ðə fɪst ˈveri hɑːd ənd ʃɔːt wɪð ə ˈsʌdn̩ ˈaʊtwəd dʒɜːk əv ðə ˈelbəʊ ənd hɪt ðə bɪɡ mæn ɒn ðə saɪd əv ðə dʒɔː. ə sɒft saɪ ˈwent əˈraʊnd ðə ruːm.  
ɪt wɒz ə ɡʊd pʌntʃ. ðə ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː) drɒpt ənd ðə ˈbɒdi swʌŋ bɪˈhaɪnd ɪt.  
  
 He had his job, his reputation for toughness, his public esteem to consider. He considered them for a second and made a mistake. He swung the fist very hard and short with a sudden outward jerk of the elbow and hit the big man on the side of the jaw. A soft sigh went around the room.  
It was a good punch. The shoulder dropped and the body swung behind it.  
  
 ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə lɒt əv weɪt ɪn ðæt pʌntʃ ənd ðə mæn huː ˈlændɪd ɪt həd həd ˈplenti əv ˈpræktɪs. ðə bɪɡ mæn didn’tiː muːv hɪz hed mɔː(ɑː) ðæn ən ɪntʃ. hiː didn’tiː ˈtraɪ tuː ˈblɒk ðə pʌntʃ. hiː tʊk ɪt, ʃʊk hɪmˈself ˈlaɪtli, ˈmeɪd ə ˈkwaɪət ˈsaʊnd ɪn hɪz θrəʊt ənd tʊk həʊld əv ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) baɪ ðə θrəʊt.  
ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) ˈtraɪd tuː niː hɪm ɪn ðə ɡrɔɪn.  
  
 There was a lot of weight in that punch and the man who landed it had had plenty of practice. The big man didn’t move his head more than an inch. He didn’t try to block the punch. He took it, shook himself lightly, made a quiet sound in his throat and took hold of the bouncer by the throat.  
The bouncer tried to knee him in the groin.  
  
 ðə bɪɡ mæn tɜːnd hɪm ɪn ðə eə(ɑː) ənd slɪd hɪz ˈɡɔːdi ʃuːz əˈpɑːt ɒn ðə ˈskeɪli lɪˈnəʊlɪəm ðæt ˈkʌvəd ðə flɔː(ɑː). hiː bent ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) ˈbækwədz ənd ˈʃɪftɪd hɪz raɪt hænd tuː ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː)’ˈes belt. ðə belt brəʊk ˈlaɪk ə piːs əv ˈbʊtʃə(ɑː)’ˈes strɪŋ.  
  
 The big man turned him in the air and slid his gaudy shoes apart on the scaly linoleum that covered the floor. He bent the bouncer backwards and shifted his right hand to the bouncer’s belt. The belt broke like a piece of butcher’s string.  
  
 ðə bɪɡ mæn ˈpʊt hɪz ɪˈnɔːməs hændz flæt əˈɡenst ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː)’ˈes spaɪn ənd hiːvd; hiː θruː hɪm klɪə(ɑː) əˈkrɒs ðə ruːm, ˈspɪnɪŋ ənd ˈstæɡərɪŋ ənd ˈfleɪlɪŋ wɪð hɪz ɑːmz. θriː men dʒʌmpt ˈaʊt əv ðə ˈweɪ. ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) ˈwent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) wɪð ə ˈteɪbl̩ ənd smækt ˈɪntə ðə ˈbeɪsbɔːd wɪð ə kræʃ ðæt mʌst həv biːn hɜːd ɪn ˈdenvə(ɑː). hɪz leɡz twɪtʃt. ðen hiː leɪ stɪl.  
  
 The big man put his enormous hands flat against the bouncer’s spine and heaved; He threw him clear across the room, spinning and staggering and flailing with his arms. Three men jumped out of the way. The bouncer went over with a table and smacked into the baseboard with a crash that must have been heard in Denver. His legs twitched. Then he lay still.  
  
  
“sʌm ɡaɪz,” ðə bɪɡ mæn ˈsed, “hæz ˈɡɒt rɒŋ aɪˈdɪəz əˈbaʊt wen tuː ˈɡet tʌf.” hiː tɜːnd tuː miː. “jeə,” hiː ˈsed. “let’ˈes juː ənd miː ˈnɪbl̩ wʌn.”  
wiː ˈwent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː ðə bɑː(ɑː). ðə ˈkʌstəməz, baɪ wʌnz ənd ˈtuːz ənd θriːz, bɪˈkeɪm ˈkwaɪət ˈʃædəʊz ðæt ˈdrɪftɪd ˈsaʊndləs əˈkrɒs ðə flɔː(ɑː), ˈsaʊndləs θruː ðə dɔːz ət ðə hed əv ðə steəz. ˈsaʊndləs əz ˈʃædəʊz ɒn ɡrɑːs. ˈðeɪ didn’tiː ˈiːvn̩ let ðə dɔːz swɪŋ.  
  
  
“Some guys,” the big man said, “has got wrong ideas about when to get tough.” He turned to me. “Yeah,” he said. “Let’s you and me nibble one.”  
We went over to the bar. The customers, by ones and twos and threes, became quiet shadows that drifted soundless across the floor, soundless through the doors at the head of the stairs. Soundless as shadows on grass. They didn’t even let the doors swing.  
  
  
wiː liːnd əˈɡenst ðə bɑː(ɑː). “ˈwɪski ˈsaʊə(r),” ðə bɪɡ mæn ˈsed. “kɔːl jɔːz.”  
“ˈwɪski ˈsaʊə(r),” ˈaɪ ˈsed.  
wiː həd ˈwɪski ˈsaʊəz.  
ðə bɪɡ mæn lɪkt hɪz ˈwɪski ˈsaʊə(r) ɪmˈpæsɪvli daʊn ðə saɪd əv ðə θɪk skwɒt ˈɡlɑːs. hiː steəd ˈsɒləmli ət ðə ˈbɑːmən, ə θɪn, ˈwʌrɪd-ˈlʊkɪŋ ˈniːɡrəʊ ɪn ə waɪt ˈkəʊt huː muːvd əz ɪf hɪz fiːt hɜːt hɪm.  
“juː nəʊ weə(ɑː) ˈvelmə ɪz?”  
ˈvelmə juː ˈsez?” ðə ˈbɑːmən waɪnd.  
  
  
We leaned against the bar. “Whiskey sour,” the big man said. “Call yours.”  
“Whiskey sour,” I said.  
We had whiskey sours.  
The big man licked his whiskey sour impassively down the side of the thick squat glass. He stared solemnly at the barman, a thin, worried-looking Negro in a white coat who moved as if his feet hurt him.  
“You know where Velma is?”  
Velma you says?” the barman whined.  
  
 “ˈaɪ ain’tiː ˈsiːn hɜː(ɑː) ‘ˈraʊnd heah ˈleɪtli. nɒt raɪt ˈleɪtli, nossuh.”  
“ˈhaʊ ˈlɒŋ juː biːn hɪə(ɑː)?”  
“let’ˈes ˈsiː,” ðə ˈbɑːmən ˈpʊt hɪz ˈtaʊəl daʊn ənd ˈrɪŋkl̩d hɪz ˈfɒrɪd ənd ˈstɑːtɪd tuː kaʊnt ɒn hɪz ˈfɪŋɡəz. “baʊt ten mʌnθs, ˈaɪ ˈrekən. ‘baʊt ə jeə. ‘baʊt—“  
“ˈmeɪk jɔː(ɑː) maɪnd ʌp,” ðə bɪɡ mæn ˈsed.  
ðə ˈbɑːmən ˈɡɒɡl̩d ənd hɪz ˈædəm’ˈes ˈæpl̩ flɒpt əˈraʊnd ˈlaɪk ə ˈhedləs ˈtʃɪkɪn.  
  
 “I ain’t seen her ‘round heah lately. Not right lately, nossuh.”  
“How long you been here?”  
“Let’s see,” the barman put his towel down and wrinkled his forehead and started to count on his fingers. “Bout ten months, I reckon. ‘Bout a yeah. ‘Bout—“  
“Make your mind up,” the big man said.  
The barman goggled and his Adam’s apple flopped around like a headless chicken.  
  
  
“ˈhaʊ ˈlɒŋ’ˈes ðɪs kuːp biːn ə dinge dʒɔɪnt?” ðə bɪɡ mæn dɪˈmɑːndɪd ˈɡrʌfli.  
“ˈsez wɪtʃ?”  
ðə bɪɡ mæn ˈmeɪd ə fɪst ˈɪntə wɪtʃ hɪz ˈwɪski ˈsaʊə(r) ˈɡlɑːs ˈmeltɪd ˈɔːlməʊst ˈaʊt əv saɪt.  
“faɪv ˈjiəz ˈeniweɪ,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ðɪs ˈfeləʊ wouldn’tiː nəʊ ˈeniθɪŋ əˈbaʊt ə waɪt ɡɜːl ˈneɪmd ˈvelmə. ˈnəʊbədi hɪə(ɑː) wʊd.”  
ðə bɪɡ mæn lʊkt ət miː əz ɪf ˈaɪ həd dʒəst hætʃt ˈaʊt.  
  
  
“How long’s this coop been a dinge joint?” the big man demanded gruffly.  
“Says which?”  
The big man made a fist into which his whiskey sour glass melted almost out of sight.  
“Five years anyway,” I said. “This fellow wouldn’t know anything about a white girl named Velma. Nobody here would.”  
The big man looked at me as if I had just hatched out.  
  
 hɪz ˈwɪski ˈsaʊə(r) hadn’tiː siːmd tuː ɪmˈpruːv hɪz ˈtempə(ɑː).  
“huː ðə hel ˈɑːskt juː tuː stɪk jɔː(ɑː) feɪs ɪn?” hiː ˈɑːskt miː.  
ˈaɪ smaɪld. ˈaɪ ˈmeɪd ɪt ə bɪɡ wɔːm ˈfrendli smaɪl. “ˈaɪ’em ðə ˈfeləʊ ðæt keɪm ɪn wɪð juː. rɪˈmembə(ɑː)?”  
hiː ɡrɪnd ˈbæk ðen, ə flæt waɪt ɡrɪn wɪðˈaʊt ˈmiːnɪŋ. “ˈwɪski ˈsaʊə(r),” hiː təʊld ðə ˈbɑːmən. “ʃeɪk ðem fliːz outa jɔː(ɑː) pænts. ˈsɜːvɪs.  
  
 His whiskey sour hadn’t seemed to improve his temper.  
“Who the hell asked you to stick your face in?” he asked me.  
I smiled. I made it a big warm friendly smile. “I’m the fellow that came in with you. Remember?”  
He grinned back then, a flat white grin without meaning. “Whiskey sour,” he told the barman. “Shake them fleas outa your pants. Service.  
  
”  
ðə ˈbɑːmən ˈskʌtl̩d əˈraʊnd, ˈrəʊlɪŋ ðə waɪts əv hɪz aɪz. ˈaɪ ˈpʊt maɪ ˈbæk əˈɡenst ðə bɑː(ɑː) ənd lʊkt ət ðə ruːm. ɪt wɒz naʊ ˈempti, seɪv fɔː(ɑː) ðə ˈbɑːmən, ðə bɪɡ mæn ənd maɪˈself, ənd ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) krʌʃt ˈəʊvə(ɑː) əˈɡenst ðə wɔːl. ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) wɒz ˈmuːvɪŋ. hiː wɒz ˈmuːvɪŋ ˈsləʊli əz ɪf wɪð ˈɡreɪt peɪn ənd ˈefət. hiː wɒz ˈkrɔːlɪŋ ˈsɒftli əˈlɒŋ ðə ˈbeɪsbɔːd ˈlaɪk ə flaɪ wɪð wʌn wɪŋ.  
  
”  
The barman scuttled around, rolling the whites of his eyes. I put my back against the bar and looked at the room. It was now empty, save for the barman, the big man and myself, and the bouncer crushed over against the wall. The bouncer was moving. He was moving slowly as if with great pain and effort. He was crawling softly along the baseboard like a fly with one wing.  
  
 hiː wɒz ˈmuːvɪŋ bɪˈhaɪnd ðə ˈteɪbl̩z, ˈwɪərɪli, ə mæn sʌdn̩li əʊld, sʌdn̩li ˌdɪsɪˈluːʒn̩d. ˈaɪ wɒtʃt hɪm muːv. ðə ˈbɑːmən ˈpʊt daʊn ˈtuː mɔː(ɑː) ˈwɪski ˈsaʊəz. ˈaɪ tɜːnd tuː ðə bɑː(ɑː). ðə bɪɡ mæn ɡlɑːnst ˈkæʒʊəli ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ət ðə ˈkrɔːlɪŋ ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) ənd ðen peɪd nəʊ ˈfɜːðə(ɑː) əˈtenʃn̩ tuː hɪm.  
“ðeə(ɑː) ain’tiː ˈnʌθɪŋ left əv ðə dʒɔɪnt,” hiː kəmˈpleɪnd.  
  
 He was moving behind the tables, wearily, a man suddenly old, suddenly disillusioned. I watched him move. The barman put down two more whiskey sours. I turned to the bar. The big man glanced casually over at the crawling bouncer and then paid no further attention to him.  
“There ain’t nothing left of the joint,” he complained.  
  
 “ˈðeɪ wɒz ə ˈlɪtl̩ steɪdʒ ənd bænd ənd kjuːt ˈlɪtl̩ ruːmz weə(ɑː) ə ɡaɪ kʊd həv fʌn. ˈvelmə dɪd sʌm ˈwɔːbl̩ɪŋ. ə ˈredhed ʃiː wɒz. kjuːt əz leɪs pænts. wiː wɒz tuː əv biːn ˈmærɪd wen ˈðeɪ hʌŋ ðə freɪm ɒn miː.”  
ˈaɪ tʊk maɪ ˈsekənd ˈwɪski ˈsaʊə(r). ˈaɪ wɒz bɪˈɡɪnɪŋ tuː həv ɪˈnʌf əv ðə ədˈventʃə(ɑː). “ˈwɒt freɪm?” ˈaɪ ˈɑːskt.  
“weə(ɑː) juː ˈfɪɡə(ɑː) ˈaɪ biːn ðem eɪt ˈjiəz ˈaɪ ˈsed əˈbaʊt?”  
“ˈkætʃɪŋ ˈbʌtəflaɪz.  
  
 “They was a little stage and band and cute little rooms where a guy could have fun. Velma did some warbling. A redhead she was. Cute as lace pants. We was to of been married when they hung the frame on me.”  
I took my second whiskey sour. I was beginning to have enough of the adventure. “What frame?” I asked.  
“Where you figure I been them eight years I said about?”  
“Catching butterflies.  
  
”  
hiː ˈprɒdɪd hɪz tʃest wɪð ə ˈfɔːfɪŋɡə(ɑː) ˈlaɪk ə bəˈnɑːnə. “ɪn ðə kəˈbuːs. məˌlɔɪ ɪz ðə ˈneɪm. ˈðeɪ kɔːl miː muːs məˌlɔɪ, ɒn əˈkaʊnt əv ˈaɪ’em lɑːdʒ. ðə ˈɡreɪt bend bæŋk dʒɒb. ˈfɔːti ɡrænd. ˈsəʊləʊ dʒɒb. Ain’tiː ðæt ˈsʌmθɪŋ?”  
“juː ˈɡəʊɪŋ tuː spend ɪt naʊ?”  
hiː ɡeɪv miː ə ʃɑːp lʊk. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə nɔɪz bɪˈhaɪnd ˈəs. ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) wɒz ɒn hɪz fiːt əˈɡen, ˈwiːvɪŋ ə ˈlɪtl̩.  
  
”  
He prodded his chest with a forefinger like a banana. “In the caboose. Malloy is the name. They call me Moose Malloy, on account of I’m large. The Great Bend bank job. Forty grand. Solo job. Ain’t that something?”  
“You going to spend it now?”  
He gave me a sharp look. There was a noise behind us. The bouncer was on his feet again, weaving a little.  
  
 hiː həd hɪz hænd ɒn ðə nɒb əv ə dɑːk dɔː(ɑː) ˈəʊvə(ɑː) bɪˈhaɪnd ðə kræp ˈteɪbl̩. hiː ˈɡɒt ðə dɔː(ɑː) ˈəʊpən, hɑːf fel θruː. ðə dɔː(ɑː) ˈklætəd ʃʌt. ə lɒk klɪkt.  
“weə(ɑː)’ˈes ðæt ɡəʊ?” muːs məˌlɔɪ dɪˈmɑːndɪd.  
ðə ˈbɑːmən’ˈes aɪz ˈfləʊtɪd ɪn hɪz hed, ˈfəʊkəst wɪð ˈdɪfɪkəlti ɒn ðə dɔː(ɑː) θruː wɪtʃ ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) həd ˈstʌmbl̩d.  
“Tha—tha’ˈes Mistah mantˈɡəmri’ˈes ˈɒfɪs, ˈsə. hiː’ˈes ðə bɒs.  
  
 He had his hand on the knob of a dark door over behind the crap table. He got the door open, half fell through. The door clattered shut. A lock clicked.  
“Where’s that go?” Moose Malloy demanded.  
The barman’s eyes floated in his head, focused with difficulty on the door through which the bouncer had stumbled.  
“Tha—tha’s Mistah Montgomery’s office, suh. He’s the boss.  
  
 hiː’ˈes ˈɡɒt hɪz ˈɒfɪs ˈbæk ðeə(ɑː).”  
“hiː maɪt nəʊ,” ðə bɪɡ mæn ˈsed. hiː dræŋk hɪz drɪŋk ət ə ɡʌlp. “hiː ˈbetə(ɑː) nɒt kræk waɪz ˈnaɪðə(ɑː). ˈtuː mɔː(ɑː) əv ðə seɪm.”  
hiː krɒst ðə ruːm ˈsləʊli, lightfooted, wɪðˈaʊt ə keə(ɑː) ɪn ðə wɜːld. hɪz ɪˈnɔːməs ˈbæk hɪd ðə dɔː(ɑː). ɪt wɒz lɒkt. hiː ʃʊk ɪt ənd ə piːs əv ðə ˈpænl̩ fluː ɒf tuː wʌn saɪd. hiː ˈwent θruː ənd ʃʌt ðə dɔː(ɑː) bɪˈhaɪnd hɪm.  
ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ˈsaɪləns.  
  
 He’s got his office back there.”  
“He might know,” the big man said. He drank his drink at a gulp. “He better not crack wise neither. Two more of the same.”  
He crossed the room slowly, lightfooted, without a care in the world. His enormous back hid the door. It was locked. He shook it and a piece of the panel flew off to one side. He went through and shut the door behind him.  
There was silence.  
  
 ˈaɪ lʊkt ət ðə ˈbɑːmən. ðə ˈbɑːmən lʊkt ət miː. hɪz aɪz bɪˈkeɪm ˈθɔːtfəl. hiː ˈpɒlɪʃt ðə ˈkaʊntə(ɑː) ənd saɪd ənd liːnd daʊn wɪð hɪz raɪt æn.  
ˈaɪ riːtʃt əˈkrɒs ðə ˈkaʊntə(ɑː) ənd tʊk həʊld əv ðə ɑːm. ɪt wɒz θɪn, ˈbrɪtl̩. ˈaɪ held ɪt ənd smaɪld ət hɪm.  
“ˈwɒt juː ˈɡɒt daʊn ðeə(ɑː), bəʊ?”  
hiː lɪkt hɪz lɪps. hiː liːnd ɒn maɪ ɑːm, ənd ˈsed ˈnʌθɪŋ. Grayness ɪnˈveɪdɪd hɪz ˈʃaɪnɪŋ feɪs.  
  
 I looked at the barman. The barman looked at me. His eyes became thoughtful. He polished the counter and sighed and leaned down with his right ann.  
I reached across the counter and took hold of the arm. It was thin, brittle. I held it and smiled at him.  
“What you got down there, bo?”  
He licked his lips. He leaned on my arm, and said nothing. Grayness invaded his shining face.  
  
  
“ðɪs ɡaɪ ɪz tʌf,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ənd hiː’ˈes ˈlaɪəbl̩ tuː ɡəʊ miːn. drɪŋks duː ðæt tuː hɪm. hiː’ˈes ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ə ɡɜːl hiː ˈjuːzd tuː nəʊ. ðɪs ˈpleɪs ˈjuːzd tuː bi ə waɪt ɪˈstæblɪʃmənt. ˈɡet ðə aɪˈdɪə?”  
ðə ˈbɑːmən lɪkt hɪz lɪps  
“hiː’ˈes biːn əˈweɪ ə ˈlɒŋ ˈtaɪm,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “eɪt ˈjiəz. hiː doesn’tiː siːm tuː ˈrɪəlaɪz ˈhaʊ ˈlɒŋ ðæt ɪz, ɔːlˈðəʊ ˈaɪ’diː ɪkˈspekt hɪm tuː ˈθɪŋk ɪt ə laɪf ˈtaɪm.  
  
  
“This guy is tough,” I said. “And he’s liable to go mean. Drinks do that to him. He’s looking for a girl he used to know. This place used to be a white establishment. Get the idea?”  
The barman licked his lips  
“He’s been away a long time,” I said. “Eight years. He doesn’t seem to realize how long that is, although I’d expect him to think it a life time.  
  
 hiː ˈθɪŋks ðə ˈpiːpl̩ hɪə(ɑː) ʃʊd nəʊ weə(ɑː) hɪz ɡɜːl ɪz. ˈɡet ðə aɪˈdɪə?”  
ðə ˈbɑːmən ˈsed ˈsləʊli: “ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt juː wɒz wɪð hɪm.”  
“ˈaɪ couldn’tiː help maɪˈself. hiː ˈɑːskt miː ə ˈkwestʃən daʊn bɪˈləʊ ənd ðen dræɡd miː ʌp. ˈaɪ ˈnevə(ɑː) ˈsɔː hɪm bɪˈfɔː(ɑː). bʌt ˈaɪ didn’tiː fiːl ˈlaɪk ˈbiːɪŋ ˈθrəʊn ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ˈeni ˈhaʊzɪz. ˈwɒt juː ˈɡɒt daʊn ðeə(ɑː)?”  
“ˈɡɒt miː ə ˈsɔːd-ɒf,” ðə ˈbɑːmən ˈsed.  
“Tsk. ðæt’ˈes ɪˈliːɡl̩,” ˈaɪ ˈwɪspəd.  
  
 He thinks the people here should know where his girl is. Get the idea?”  
The barman said slowly: “I thought you was with him.”  
“I couldn’t help myself. He asked me a question down below and then dragged me up. I never saw him before. But I didn’t feel like being thrown over any houses. What you got down there?”  
“Got me a sawed-off,” the barman said.  
“Tsk. That’s illegal,” I whispered.  
  
 “ˈlɪsn̩, juː ənd ˈaɪ ə(ɑː) təˈɡeðə(ɑː). ˈɡɒt ˈeniθɪŋ els?”  
“ˈɡɒt miː ə ˈɡæt,” ðə ˈbɑːmən ˈsed. “ɪn ə sɪˈɡɑː(ɑː) bɒks. Leggo maɪ ɑːm.”  
“ðæt’ˈes faɪn,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “naʊ muːv əˈlɒŋ ə bɪt. ˈiːzi naʊ. ˈsaɪdweɪz. ðɪs isn’tiː ðə ˈtaɪm tuː pʊl ðə ɑːˈtɪləri.”  
“ˈsez juː,” ðə ˈbɑːmən snɪəd, ˈpʊtɪŋ hɪz ˈtaɪəd weɪt əˈɡenst maɪ ɑːm. “ˈsez—“  
hiː stɒpt. hɪz aɪz rəʊld. hɪz hed dʒɜːkt.  
  
 “Listen, you and I are together. Got anything else?”  
“Got me a gat,” the barman said. “In a cigar box. Leggo my arm.”  
“That’s fine,” I said. “Now move along a bit. Easy now. Sideways. This isn’t the time to pull the artillery.”  
“Says you,” the barman sneered, putting his tired weight against my arm. “Says—“  
He stopped. His eyes rolled. His head jerked.  
  
  
ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə dʌl flæt ˈsaʊnd ət ðə ˈbæk əv ðə ˈpleɪs, bɪˈhaɪnd ðə kləʊzd dɔː(ɑː) bɪˈjɒnd ðə kræp ˈteɪbl̩. ɪt maɪt həv biːn ə slæmd dɔː(ɑː). ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈθɪŋk ɪt wɒz. ðə ˈbɑːmən didn’tiː ˈθɪŋk ˈsəʊ ˈaɪðə(ɑː).  
ðə ˈbɑːmən frəʊz. hɪz maʊθ druːld. ˈaɪ ˈlɪsn̩d. nəʊ ˈʌðə(ɑː) ˈsaʊnd. ˈaɪ ˈstɑːtɪd ˈkwɪkli fɔː(ɑː) ðə end əv ðə ˈkaʊntə(ɑː). ˈaɪ həd ˈlɪsn̩d tuː ˈlɒŋ.  
  
  
There was a dull flat sound at the back of the place, behind the closed door beyond the crap table. It might have been a slammed door. I didn’t think it was. The barman didn’t think so either.  
The barman froze. His mouth drooled. I listened. No other sound. I started quickly for the end of the counter. I had listened too long.  
  
  
ðə dɔː(ɑː) ət ðə ˈbæk ˈəʊpənd wɪð ə bæŋ ənd muːs məˌlɔɪ keɪm θruː ɪt wɪð ə smuːð ˈhevi lʌndʒ ənd stɒpt ded, hɪz fiːt ˈplɑːntɪd ənd ə waɪd peɪl ɡrɪn ɒn hɪz feɪs.  
ə kəʊlt ˈɑːmi .45 lʊkt ˈlaɪk ə tɔɪ ˈpɪstl̩ ɪn hɪz hænd.  
“dɒn’tiː ˈnəʊbədi ˈtraɪ tuː ˈfænsi pænts,” hiː ˈsed cozily. “friːz ðə mɪts ɒn ðə bɑː(ɑː).”  
ðə ˈbɑːmən ənd ˈaɪ ˈpʊt ˈaʊə(ɑː) hændz ɒn ðə bɑː(ɑː).  
  
  
The door at the back opened with a bang and Moose Malloy came through it with a smooth heavy lunge and stopped dead, his feet planted and a wide pale grin on his face.  
A Colt Army .45 looked like a toy pistol in his hand.  
“Don’t nobody try to fancy pants,” he said cozily. “Freeze the mitts on the bar.”  
The barman and I put our hands on the bar.  
  
  
muːs məˌlɔɪ lʊkt ðə ruːm ˈəʊvə(ɑː) wɪð ə ˈreɪkɪŋ ɡlɑːns. hɪz ɡrɪn wɒz tɔːt, neɪld ɒn. hiː ˈʃɪftɪd hɪz fiːt ənd muːvd ˈsaɪləntli əˈkrɒs ðə ruːm. hiː lʊkt ˈlaɪk ə mæn huː kʊd teɪk ə bæŋk ˈsɪŋɡl̩-ˈhændɪd—ˈiːvn̩ ɪn ðəʊz kləʊðz.  
hiː keɪm tuː ðə bɑː(ɑː). “raɪz ʌp, ˈnɪɡə(ɑː),” hiː ˈsed ˈsɒftli. ðə ˈbɑːmən ˈpʊt hɪz hændz haɪ ɪn ðə eə(ɑː).  
  
  
Moose Malloy looked the room over with a raking glance. His grin was taut, nailed on. He shifted his feet and moved silently across the room. He looked like a man who could take a bank single-handed—even in those clothes.  
He came to the bar. “Rise up, nigger,” he said softly. The barman put his hands high in the air.  
  
 ðə bɪɡ mæn stept tuː maɪ ˈbæk ənd praʊld miː ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ˈkeəfəli wɪð hɪz left hænd. hɪz breθ wɒz hɒt ɒn maɪ nek. ɪt ˈwent əˈweɪ.  
“ˈmɪstə(r) mantˈɡəmri didn’tiː nəʊ weə(ɑː) ˈvelmə wɒz ˈnaɪðə(ɑː),” hiː ˈsed. “hiː ˈtraɪd tuː tel miː—wɪð ðɪs.” hɪz hɑːd hænd ˈpætɪd ðə ɡʌn. ˈaɪ tɜːnd ˈsləʊli ənd lʊkt ət hɪm. “jeə,” hiː ˈsed. “juː’laɪnz nəʊ miː. juː ain’tiː fəˈɡetɪŋ miː, pæl.  
  
 The big man stepped to my back and prowled me over carefully with his left hand. His breath was hot on my neck. It went away.  
“Mister Montgomery didn’t know where Velma was neither,” he said. “He tried to tell me—with this.” His hard hand patted the gun. I turned slowly and looked at him. “Yeah,” he said. “You’ll know me. You ain’t forgetting me, pal.  
  
 dʒəst tel ðem ˈdʒɑːnz nɒt tuː ˈɡet ˈkeələs ɪz ɔːl.” hiː ˈwæɡl̩d ðə ɡʌn. “wel ˈsəʊ ˈlɒŋ, pʌŋks. ˈaɪ ˈɡɒtə kætʃ ə striːt kɑː(ɑː).”  
hiː ˈstɑːtɪd təˈwɔːdz ðə hed əv ðə steəz.  
“juː didn’tiː peɪ fɔː(ɑː) ðə drɪŋks,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.  
hiː stɒpt ənd lʊkt ət miː ˈkeəfəli.  
“ˈmeɪbiː juː ˈɡɒt ˈsʌmθɪŋ ðeə(ɑː),” hiː ˈsed, “bʌt ˈaɪ wouldn’tiː skwiːz ɪt tuː hɑːd.  
  
 Just tell them johns not to get careless is all.” He waggled the gun. “Well so long, punks. I gotta catch a street car.”  
He started towards the head of the stairs.  
“You didn’t pay for the drinks,” I said.  
He stopped and looked at me carefully.  
“Maybe you got something there,” he said, “but I wouldn’t squeeze it too hard.  
  
”  
hiː muːvd ɒn, slɪpt θruː ðə ˈdʌbl̩ dɔːz, ənd hɪz steps ˈsaʊndɪd rɪˈməʊtli ˈɡəʊɪŋ daʊn ðə steəz.  
ðə ˈbɑːmən stuːpt. ˈaɪ dʒʌmpt əˈraʊnd bɪˈhaɪnd ðə ˈkaʊntə(ɑː) ənd ˈdʒɒsl̩d hɪm ˈaʊt əv ðə ˈweɪ. ə ˈsɔːd-ɒf ˈʃɒtɡʌn leɪ ˈʌndə(ɑː) ə ˈtaʊəl ɒn ə ʃelf ˈʌndə(ɑː) ðə bɑː(ɑː). bɪˈsaɪd ɪt wɒz ə sɪˈɡɑː(ɑː) bɒks. ɪn ðə sɪˈɡɑː(ɑː) bɒks wɒz ə .38 ˌɔːtəˈmætɪk. ˈaɪ tʊk bəʊθ əv ðem.  
  
”  
He moved on, slipped through the double doors, and his steps sounded remotely going down the stairs.  
The barman stooped. I jumped around behind the counter and jostled him out of the way. A sawed-off shotgun lay under a towel on a shelf under the bar. Beside it was a cigar box. In the cigar box was a .38 automatic. I took both of them.  
  
 ðə ˈbɑːmən prest ˈbæk əˈɡenst ðə tɪə(r) əv ˈɡlɑːsɪz bɪˈhaɪnd ðə bɑː(ɑː).  
ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈbæk əˈraʊnd ðə end əv ðə bɑː(ɑː) ənd əˈkrɒs ðə ruːm tuː ðə ˈɡeɪpɪŋ dɔː(ɑː) bɪˈhaɪnd ðə kræp ˈteɪbl̩. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈhɔːlweɪ bɪˈhaɪnd ɪt, el-ʃeɪpt, ˈɔːlməʊst lightless. ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) leɪ sprɔːld ɒn ɪts flɔː(ɑː) ʌnˈkɒnʃəs, wɪð ə naɪf ɪn hɪz hænd. ˈaɪ liːnd daʊn ənd pʊld ðə naɪf luːs ənd θruː ɪt daʊn ə ˈbæk ˈsteəweɪ.  
  
 The barman pressed back against the tier of glasses behind the bar.  
I went back around the end of the bar and across the room to the gaping door behind the crap table. There was a hallway behind it, L-shaped, almost lightless. The bouncer lay sprawled on its floor unconscious, with a knife in his hand. I leaned down and pulled the knife loose and threw it down a back stairway.  
  
 ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) briːðd ˈstɜːtərəsli ənd hɪz hænd wɒz lɪmp.  
ˈaɪ stept ˈəʊvə(ɑː) hɪm ənd ˈəʊpənd ə dɔː(ɑː) mɑːkt “ˈɒfɪs” ɪn fleɪkt blæk peɪnt.  
ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə smɔːl skɑːd desk kləʊz tuː ə ˈpɑːtli ˈbɔːdɪd-ʌp ˈwɪndəʊ. ðə ˈtɔːsəʊ əv ə mæn wɒz bəʊlt ˈʌpraɪt ɪn ðə tʃeə(ɑː). ðə tʃeə(ɑː) həd ə haɪ ˈbæk wɪtʃ dʒəst riːtʃt tuː ðə neɪp əv ðə mæn’ˈes nek.  
  
 The bouncer breathed stertorously and his hand was limp.  
I stepped over him and opened a door marked “Office” in flaked black paint.  
There was a small scarred desk close to a partly boarded-up window. The torso of a man was bolt upright in the chair. The chair had a high back which just reached to the nape of the man’s neck.  
  
 hɪz hed wɒz ˈfəʊldɪd ˈbæk ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ðə haɪ ˈbæk əv ðə tʃeə(ɑː) ˈsəʊ ðæt hɪz nəʊz ˈpɔɪntɪd ət ðə ˈbɔːdɪd-ʌp ˈwɪndəʊ. dʒəst ˈfəʊldɪd, ˈlaɪk ə ˈhæŋkətʃɪf ɔː(ɑː) ə hɪndʒ.  
ə drɔː(ɑː) əv ðə desk wɒz ˈəʊpən ət ðə mæn’ˈes raɪt. ɪnˈsaɪd wɒz ə ˈnjuːspeɪpə(ɑː) wɪð ə smɪə(r) əv ɔɪl ɪn ðə ˈmɪdl̩. ðə ɡʌn wʊd həv kʌm frəm ðeə(ɑː). ɪt həd ˈprɒbəbli siːmd ˈlaɪk ə ɡʊd aɪˈdɪə ət ðə ˈtaɪm, bʌt ðə pəˈzɪʃn̩ əv ˈmɪstə(ɑː).  
  
 His head was folded back over the high back of the chair so that his nose pointed at the boarded-up window. Just folded, like a handkerchief or a hinge.  
A drawer of the desk was open at the man’s right. Inside was a newspaper with a smear of oil in the middle. The gun would have come from there. It had probably seemed like a good idea at the time, but the position of Mr.  
  
 mantˈɡəmri’ˈes hed pruːvd ðæt ðə aɪˈdɪə həd biːn rɒŋ.  
ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈtelɪfəʊn ɒn ðə desk. ˈaɪ leɪd ðə ˈsɔːd-ɒf ˈʃɒtɡʌn daʊn ənd ˈwent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː lɒk ðə dɔː(ɑː) bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) ˈaɪ kɔːld ðə pəˈliːs. ˈaɪ felt ˈseɪfə(r) ðæt ˈweɪ ənd ˈmɪstə(ɑː). mantˈɡəmri didn’tiː siːm tuː maɪnd.  
wen ðə praʊl kɑː(ɑː) ˈbɔɪz stæmpt ʌp ðə steəz, ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) ənd ðə ˈbɑːmən həd ˌdɪsəˈpɪəd ənd ˈaɪ həd ðə ˈpleɪs tuː maɪˈself.  
  
 Montgomery’s head proved that the idea had been wrong.  
There was a telephone on the desk. I laid the sawed-off shotgun down and went over to lock the door before I called the police. I felt safer that way and Mr. Montgomery didn’t seem to mind.  
When the prowl car boys stamped up the stairs, the bouncer and the barman had disappeared and I had the place to myself.  
  
  
  
  
  
3  
ə mæn ˈneɪmd ˈnəlti ˈɡɒt ðə keɪs, ə liːn-dʒɔːd sourpuss wɪð ˈlɒŋ ˈjeləʊ hændz wɪtʃ hiː kept ˈfəʊldɪd ˈəʊvə(ɑː) hɪz ˈniːkæps məʊst əv ðə ˈtaɪm hiː ˈtɔːkt tuː miː. hiː wɒz ə dɪˈtektɪv-lefˈtenənt əˈtætʃt tuː ðə 77th striːt dɪˈvɪʒn̩ ənd wiː ˈtɔːkt ɪn ə beə(ɑː) ruːm wɪð ˈtuː smɔːl desks əˈɡenst ˈɒpəzɪt wɔːlz ənd ruːm tuː muːv bɪˈtwiːn ðem, ɪf ˈtuː ˈpiːpl̩ didn’tiː ˈtraɪ ɪt ət wʌns.  
  
3  
A man named Nulty got the case, a lean-jawed sourpuss with long yellow hands which he kept folded over his kneecaps most of the time he talked to me. He was a detective-lieutenant attached to the 77th Street Division and we talked in a bare room with two small desks against opposite walls and room to move between them, if two people didn’t try it at once.  
  
 ˈdɜːti braʊn lɪˈnəʊlɪəm ˈkʌvəd ðə flɔː(ɑː) ənd ðə smel əv əʊld sɪˈɡɑː(ɑː) bʌts hʌŋ ɪn ðə eə(ɑː). ˈnəlti’ˈes ʃɜːt wɒz freɪd ənd hɪz ˈkəʊt sliːvz həd biːn tɜːnd ɪn ət ðə kʌfs. hiː lʊkt pʊə(ɑː) ɪˈnʌf tuː bi ˈɒnɪst, bʌt hiː didn’tiː lʊk ˈlaɪk ə mæn huː kʊd diːl wɪð muːs məˌlɔɪ.  
hiː lɪt hɑːf əv ə sɪˈɡɑː(ɑː) ənd θruː ðə mætʃ ɒn ðə flɔː(ɑː), weə(ɑː) ə lɒt əv ˈkʌmpəni wɒz ˈweɪtɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ɪt.  
  
 Dirty brown linoleum covered the floor and the smell of old cigar butts hung in the air. Nulty’s shirt was frayed and his coat sleeves had been turned in at the cuffs. He looked poor enough to be honest, but he didn’t look like a man who could deal with Moose Malloy.  
He lit half of a cigar and threw the match on the floor, where a lot of company was waiting for it.  
  
 hɪz vɔɪs ˈsed ˈbɪtəli:  
“ʃaɪnz. əˈnʌðə(ɑː) ʃaɪn ˈkɪlɪŋ. ðæt’ˈes ˈwɒt ˈaɪ reɪt ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ˌeɪˈtiːn ˈjiəz ɪn ðɪs mæn’ˈes pəˈliːs dɪˈpɑːtmənt. nəʊ ˈpɪks, nəʊ speɪs, nɒt ˈiːvn̩ fɔː(ɑː) laɪnz ɪn ðə wɒnt-æd ˈsekʃn̩.”  
ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈseɪ ˈeniθɪŋ. hiː pɪkt maɪ kɑːd ʌp ənd riːd ɪt əˈɡen ənd θruː ɪt daʊn.  
“ˈfɪlɪp ˈmɑːˌləʊ, ˈpraɪvɪt ɪnˈvestɪɡeɪtə(r). wʌn əv ðəʊz ɡaɪz, hʌ? ˈdʒiːzəs, juː lʊk tʌf ɪˈnʌf.  
  
 His voice said bitterly:  
“Shines. Another shine killing. That’s what I rate after eighteen years in this man’s police department. No pix, no space, not even four lines in the want-ad section.”  
I didn’t say anything. He picked my card up and read it again and threw it down.  
“Philip Marlowe, Private Investigator. One of those guys, huh? Jesus, you look tough enough.  
  
 ˈwɒt wɒz juː ˈduːɪŋ ɔːl ðæt ˈtaɪm?”  
“ɔːl ˈwɒt ˈtaɪm?”  
“ɔːl ðə ˈtaɪm ðɪs məˌlɔɪ wɒz ˈtwɪstɪŋ ðə nek əv ðɪs sməʊk.”  
“əʊ, ðæt ˈhæpənd ɪn əˈnʌðə(ɑː) ruːm,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “məˌlɔɪ hadn’tiː ˈprɒmɪst miː hiː wɒz ˈɡəʊɪŋ tuː breɪk ˈenibɒdi’ˈes nek.”  
“raɪd miː,” ˈnəlti ˈsed ˈbɪtəli. “ˈoki, ɡəʊ əˈhed ənd raɪd miː. ˈevrɪˌbɒdi els dʌz. ˈwɒt’ˈes əˈnʌðə(ɑː) wʌn ˈmætə(ɑː)? pʊə(ɑː) əʊld ˈnəlti.  
  
 What was you doing all that time?”  
“All what time?”  
“All the time this Malloy was twisting the neck of this smoke.”  
“Oh, that happened in another room,” I said. “Malloy hadn’t promised me he was going to break anybody’s neck.”  
“Ride me,” Nulty said bitterly. “Okey, go ahead and ride me. Everybody else does. What’s another one matter? Poor old Nulty.  
  
 let’ˈes ɡəʊ ɒn ʌp ənd ˈθrəʊ ə ˈkʌpl̩ əv nifties ət hɪm. ˈɔːlweɪz ɡʊd fɔː(ɑː) ə lɑːf, ˈnəlti ɪz.”  
“ˈaɪ’em nɒt ˈtraɪɪŋ tuː raɪd ˈenibɒdi,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ðæt’ˈes ðə ˈweɪ ɪt ˈhæpənd—ɪn əˈnʌðə(ɑː) ruːm.”  
“əʊ, ʃʊə(ɑː),” ˈnəlti ˈsed θruː ə fæn əv ræŋk sɪˈɡɑː(ɑː) sməʊk. “ˈaɪ wɒz daʊn ðeə(ɑː) ənd ˈsɔː, didn’tiː ˈaɪ? dɒn’tiː juː pæk nəʊ rɒd?”  
“nɒt ɒn ðæt kaɪnd əv ə dʒɒb.”  
“ˈwɒt kaɪnd əv ə dʒɒb?  
  
 Let’s go on up and throw a couple of nifties at him. Always good for a laugh, Nulty is.”  
“I’m not trying to ride anybody,” I said. “That’s the way it happened—in another room.”  
“Oh, sure,” Nulty said through a fan of rank cigar smoke. “I was down there and saw, didn’t I? Don’t you pack no rod?”  
“Not on that kind of a job.”  
“What kind of a job?  
  
”  
“ˈaɪ wɒz ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈbɑːbə(ɑː) huː həd rʌn əˈweɪ frəm hɪz waɪf. ʃiː ˈθɔːt hiː kʊd bi pəˈsweɪdɪd tuː kʌm həʊm.”  
“juː miːn ə dinge?”  
“nəʊ, ə ˈɡriːk.”  
“ˈoki,” ˈnəlti ˈsed ənd spɪt ˈɪntə hɪz ˈweɪstbɑːskɪt. “ˈoki. juː met ðə bɪɡ ɡaɪ ˈhaʊ?”  
“ˈaɪ təʊld juː ɔːlˈredi. ˈaɪ dʒəst ˈhæpənd tuː bi ðeə(ɑː). hiː θruː ə ˈniːɡrəʊ ˈaʊt əv ðə dɔːz əv ˈflɔːiən’ˈes ənd ˈaɪ ʌnˈwaɪzli pəʊkt maɪ hed ɪn tuː ˈsiː ˈwɒt wɒz ˈhæpənɪŋ.  
  
”  
“I was looking for a barber who had run away from his wife. She thought he could be persuaded to come home.”  
“You mean a dinge?”  
“No, a Greek.”  
“Okey,” Nulty said and spit into his wastebasket. “Okey. You met the big guy how?”  
“I told you already. I just happened to be there. He threw a Negro out of the doors of Florian’s and I unwisely poked my head in to see what was happening.  
  
 ˈsəʊ hiː tʊk miː ˌʌpˈsteəz.”  
“juː miːn hiː stʌk juː ʌp?”  
“nəʊ, hiː didn’tiː həv ðə ɡʌn ðen. ət liːst, hiː didn’tiː ʃəʊ wʌn. hiː tʊk ðə ɡʌn əˈweɪ frəm mantˈɡəmri, ˈprɒbəbli. hiː dʒəst pɪkt miː ʌp. ˈaɪ’em kaɪnd əv kjuːt ˈsʌmtaɪmz.”  
“ˈaɪ wouldn’tiː nəʊ,” ˈnəlti ˈsed. “juː siːm tuː pɪk ʌp ˈɔːfl̩ ˈiːzi.”  
“ɔːl raɪt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “waɪ ˈɑːɡjuː? ˈaɪ’ˈviː ˈsiːn ðə ɡaɪ ənd juː ˈheɪvn̩’tiː. hiː kʊd weə(ɑː) juː ɔː(ɑː) miː fɔː(ɑː) ə wɒtʃ tʃɑːm.  
  
 So he took me upstairs.”  
“You mean he stuck you up?”  
“No, he didn’t have the gun then. At least, he didn’t show one. He took the gun away from Montgomery, probably. He just picked me up. I’m kind of cute sometimes.”  
“I wouldn’t know,” Nulty said. “You seem to pick up awful easy.”  
“All right,” I said. “Why argue? I’ve seen the guy and you haven’t. He could wear you or me for a watch charm.  
  
 ˈaɪ didn’tiː nəʊ hiː həd kɪld ˈenibɒdi ʌnˈtɪl ˈɑːftə(ɑː) hiː left. ˈaɪ hɜːd ə ʃɒt, bʌt ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt ðə aɪˈdɪə ˈsʌmbədi həd ˈɡɒt skeəd ənd ʃɒt ət məˌlɔɪ ənd ðen məˌlɔɪ tʊk ðə ɡʌn əˈweɪ frəm huːˈevə(r) dɪd ɪt.”  
“ənd waɪ wʊd juː ˈɡet ən aɪˈdɪə ˈlaɪk ðæt?” ˈnəlti ˈɑːskt ˈɔːlməʊst ˈswɑːvli. “hiː ˈjuːzd ə ɡʌn tuː teɪk ðæt bæŋk, didn’tiː hiː?”  
“kənˈsɪdə(ɑː) ðə kaɪnd əv kləʊðz hiː wɒz ˈweərɪŋ.  
  
 I didn’t know he had killed anybody until after he left. I heard a shot, but I got the idea somebody had got scared and shot at Malloy and then Malloy took the gun away from whoever did it.”  
“And why would you get an idea like that?” Nulty asked almost suavely. “He used a gun to take that bank, didn’t he?”  
“Consider the kind of clothes he was wearing.  
  
 hiː didn’tiː ɡəʊ ðeə(ɑː) tuː kɪl ˈenibɒdi; nɒt drest ˈlaɪk ðæt. hiː ˈwent ðeə(ɑː) tuː lʊk fɔː(ɑː) ðɪs ɡɜːl ˈneɪmd ˈvelmə ðæt həd biːn hɪz ɡɜːl bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) hiː wɒz pɪntʃt fɔː(ɑː) ðə bæŋk dʒɒb. ʃiː ˈwɜːkt ðeə(ɑː) ət ˈflɔːiən’ˈes ɔː(ɑː) wɒtˈevə(ɑː) ˈpleɪs wɒz ðeə(ɑː) wen ɪt wɒz stɪl ə waɪt dʒɔɪnt. hiː wɒz pɪntʃt ðeə(ɑː). juː’laɪnz ˈɡet hɪm ɔːl raɪt.”  
“ʃʊə(ɑː),” ˈnəlti ˈsed. “wɪð ðæt saɪz ənd ðem kləʊðz. ˈiːzi.  
  
 He didn’t go there to kill anybody; not dressed like that. He went there to look for this girl named Velma that had been his girl before he was pinched for the bank job. She worked there at Florian’s or whatever place was there when it was still a white joint. He was pinched there. You’ll get him all right.”  
“Sure,” Nulty said. “With that size and them clothes. Easy.  
  
”  
“hiː maɪt həv əˈnʌðə(ɑː) suːt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ənd ə kɑː(ɑː) ənd ə ˈhaɪdaʊt ənd ˈmʌni ənd frendz. bʌt juː’laɪnz ˈɡet hɪm.”  
ˈnəlti spɪt ɪn ðə ˈweɪstbɑːskɪt əˈɡen. “ˈaɪ’laɪnz ˈɡet hɪm,” hiː ˈsed, “əˈbaʊt ðə ˈtaɪm ˈaɪ ˈɡet maɪ ˈθɜːd set əv tiːθ. ˈhaʊ ˈmeni ɡaɪz ɪz ˈpʊt ɒn ɪt? wʌn. ˈlɪsn̩, juː nəʊ waɪ? nəʊ speɪs. wʌn ˈtaɪm ðeə(ɑː) wɒz faɪv sməʊks kɑːvd ˈhɑːləm ˈsʌnsets ɒn iːtʃ ˈʌðə(ɑː) daʊn ɒn iːst ˈeɪti-fɔː(ɑː).  
  
”  
“He might have another suit,” I said. “And a car and a hideout and money and friends. But you’ll get him.”  
Nulty spit in the wastebasket again. “I’ll get him,” he said, “about the time I get my third set of teeth. How many guys is put on it? One. Listen, you know why? No space. One time there was five smokes carved Harlem sunsets on each other down on East Eighty-four.  
  
 wʌn əv ðem wɒz kəʊld ɔːlˈredi. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz blʌd ɒn ðə ˈfɜːnɪtʃə(ɑː), blʌd ɒn ðə wɔːlz, blʌd ˈiːvn̩ ɒn ðə ˈsiːlɪŋ. ˈaɪ ɡəʊ daʊn ənd ˌaʊtˈsaɪd ðə ˈhaʊs ə ɡaɪ ðæt ˈwɜːks ɒn ðə ˈkrɒnɪkl̩, ə ˈnjuːzhɔːk, ɪz ˈkʌmɪŋ ɒf ðə pɔːtʃ ənd ˈɡetɪŋ ˈɪntə hɪz kɑː(ɑː). hiː ˈmeɪks ə feɪs ət ˈəs ənd ˈsez, ‘ɔː, hel, ʃaɪnz,’ ənd ˈɡets ɪn hɪz hiːp ənd ɡəʊz əˈweɪ. dɒn’tiː ˈiːvn̩ ɡəʊ ɪn ðə ˈhaʊs.”  
“ˈmeɪbiː hiː’ˈes ə pəˈrəʊl ˈbreɪkə(ɑː),” ˈaɪ ˈsed.  
  
 One of them was cold already. There was blood on the furniture, blood on the walls, blood even on the ceiling. I go down and outside the house a guy that works on the Chronicle, a newshawk, is coming off the porch and getting into his car. He makes a face at us and says, ‘Aw, hell, shines,’ and gets in his heap and goes away. Don’t even go in the house.”  
“Maybe he’s a parole breaker,” I said.  
  
 “juː’diː ˈɡet sʌm kəʊ-ˌɒpəˈreɪʃn̩ ɒn ðæt. bʌt pɪk hɪm ʌp naɪs ɔː(ɑː) hiː’laɪnz nɒk ɒf ə breɪs əv prowlies fɔː(ɑː) juː. ðen juː’laɪnz ˈɡet speɪs.”  
“ənd ˈaɪ wouldn’tiː həv ðə keɪs nəʊ mɔː(ɑː) ˈnaɪðə(ɑː),” ˈnəlti snɪəd.  
ðə fəʊn ræŋ ɒn hɪz desk. hiː ˈlɪsn̩d tuː ɪt ənd smaɪld ˈsɒrəʊfli. hiː hʌŋ ʌp ənd ˈskrɪbl̩d ɒn ə pæd ənd ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə feɪnt ɡliːm ɪn hɪz aɪz, ə laɪt ˈfɑː(ɑː) ˈbæk ɪn ə ˈdʌsti ˈkɒrɪdɔː(ɑː).  
  
 “You’d get some co-operation on that. But pick him up nice or he’ll knock off a brace of prowlies for you. Then you’ll get space.”  
“And I wouldn’t have the case no more neither,” Nulty sneered.  
The phone rang on his desk. He listened to it and smiled sorrowfully. He hung up and scribbled on a pad and there was a faint gleam in his eyes, a light far back in a dusty corridor.  
  
  
“hel, ˈðeɪ ˈɡɒt hɪm. ðæt wɒz rɪˈkɔːdz. ˈɡɒt hɪz prɪnts, mʌɡ ənd ˈevrɪθɪŋ. ˈdʒiːzəs, ðæt’ˈes ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈsʌmθɪŋ ˈeniweɪ.” hiː riːd frəm hɪz pæd. “ˈdʒiːzəs, ðɪs ɪz ə mæn. sɪks faɪv ənd wʌn-hɑːf, ˈtuː ˈhʌndrəd ˈsɪksti-fɔː(ɑː) paʊndz, wɪðˈaʊt hɪz ˈnektaɪ. ˈdʒiːzəs, ðæt’ˈes ə ˌbɔɪ. wel, ðə hel wɪð hɪm. ˈðeɪ ˈɡɒt hɪm ɒn ðə eə(ɑː) naʊ. ˈprɒbəbli ət ðə end əv ðə hɒt kɑː(ɑː) lɪst. Ain’tiː ˈnʌθɪŋ tuː duː bʌt dʒəst weɪt.  
  
  
“Hell, they got him. That was Records. Got his prints, mug and everything. Jesus, that’s a little something anyway.” He read from his pad. “Jesus, this is a man. Six five and one-half, two hundred sixty-four pounds, without his necktie. Jesus, that’s a boy. Well, the hell with him. They got him on the air now. Probably at the end of the hot car list. Ain’t nothing to do but just wait.  
  
” hiː θruː hɪz sɪˈɡɑː(ɑː) ˈɪntə ə spɪˈtuːn.  
“ˈtraɪ ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ðə ɡɜːl,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ˈvelmə. məˌlɔɪ wɪl bi ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) hɜː(ɑː). ðæt’ˈes ˈwɒt ˈstɑːtɪd ɪt ɔːl. ˈtraɪ ˈvelmə.”  
“juː ˈtraɪ hɜː(ɑː),” ˈnəlti ˈsed. “ˈaɪ ain’tiː biːn ɪn ə dʒɔɪ ˈhaʊs ɪn ˈtwenti ˈjiəz.”  
ˈaɪ stʊd ʌp. “ˈoki,” ˈaɪ ˈsed, ənd ˈstɑːtɪd fɔː(ɑː) ðə dɔː(ɑː).  
“heɪ, weɪt ə maɪˈnjuːt,” ˈnəlti ˈsed. “ˈaɪ wɒz ˈəʊnli ˈkɪdɪŋ. juː ain’tiː ˈɔːfl̩ ˈbɪzi, ə(ɑː) juː?  
  
” He threw his cigar into a spittoon.  
“Try looking for the girl,” I said. “Velma. Malloy will be looking for her. That’s what started it all. Try Velma.”  
“You try her,” Nulty said. “I ain’t been in a joy house in twenty years.”  
I stood up. “Okey,” I said, and started for the door.  
“Hey, wait a minute,” Nulty said. “I was only kidding. You ain’t awful busy, are you?  
  
”  
ˈaɪ rəʊld ə ˌsɪɡəˈret əˈraʊnd ɪn maɪ ˈfɪŋɡəz ənd lʊkt ət hɪm ənd ˈweɪtɪd baɪ ðə dɔː(ɑː).  
“ˈaɪ miːn juː ˈɡɒt ˈtaɪm tuː sɔːt əv teɪk ə ˈɡændə(ɑː) əˈraʊnd fɔː(ɑː) ðɪs deɪm. ðæt’ˈes ə ɡʊd aɪˈdɪə juː həd ðeə(ɑː). juː maɪt pɪk ˈsʌmθɪŋ ʌp. juː kæn ˈwɜːk ˈʌndə(ɑː) ˈɡlɑːs.”  
“ˈwɒt’ˈes ɪn ɪt fɔː(ɑː) miː?”  
hiː spred hɪz ˈjeləʊ hændz ˈsædli. hɪz smaɪl wɒz ˈkʌnɪŋ əz ə ˈbrəʊkən ˈmaʊstræp. “juː biːn ɪn dʒæmz wɪð ˈəs ˈbɔɪz bɪˈfɔː(ɑː).  
  
”  
I rolled a cigarette around in my fingers and looked at him and waited by the door.  
“I mean you got time to sort of take a gander around for this dame. That’s a good idea you had there. You might pick something up. You can work under glass.”  
“What’s in it for me?”  
He spread his yellow hands sadly. His smile was cunning as a broken mousetrap. “You been in jams with us boys before.  
  
 dɒn’tiː tel miː nəʊ. ˈaɪ hɜːd ˈdɪfrənt. nekst ˈtaɪm ɪt ain’tiː ˈduːɪŋ juː ˈeni hɑːm tuː həv ə pæl.”  
“ˈwɒt ɡʊd ɪz ɪt gomg tuː duː miː?”  
“ˈlɪsn̩,” ˈnəlti ɜːdʒd. “ˈaɪ’em dʒəst ə ˈkwaɪət ɡaɪ. bʌt ˈeni ɡaɪ ɪn ðə dɪˈpɑːtmənt kæn duː juː ə lɒt əv ɡʊd.”  
“ɪz ðɪs fɔː(ɑː) ˈlʌv—ɔː(ɑː) ə(ɑː) juː ˈpeɪɪŋ ˈeniθɪŋ ɪn ˈmʌni?”  
“nəʊ ˈmʌni,” ˈnəlti ˈsed, ənd ˈrɪŋkl̩d hɪz sæd ˈjeləʊ nəʊz. “bʌt ˈaɪ’em ˈniːdɪŋ ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈkredɪt bæd.  
  
 Don’t tell me no. I heard different. Next time it ain’t doing you any harm to have a pal.”  
“What good is it gomg to do me?”  
“Listen,” Nulty urged. “I’m just a quiet guy. But any guy in the department can do you a lot of good.”  
“Is this for love—or are you paying anything in money?”  
“No money,” Nulty said, and wrinkled his sad yellow nose. “But I’m needing a little credit bad.  
  
 sɪns ðə lɑːst ʃeɪk-ʌp, ˈθɪŋz ɪz ˈrɪəli tʌf. ˈaɪ wouldn’tiː fəˈɡet ɪt, pæl. nɒt ˈevə(ɑː).”  
ˈaɪ lʊkt ət maɪ wɒtʃ. “ˈoki, ɪf ˈaɪ ˈθɪŋk əv ˈeniθɪŋ, ɪt’ˈes jɔːz. ənd wen juː ˈɡet ðə mʌɡ, ˈaɪ’laɪnz aɪˈdentɪfaɪ ɪt fɔː(ɑː) juː. ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ˈlʌntʃ.” wiː ʃʊk hændz ənd ˈaɪ ˈwent daʊn ðə mʌd-ˈkʌlərd hɔːl ənd ˈsteəweɪ tuː ðə frʌnt əv ðə ˈbɪldɪŋ ənd maɪ kɑː(ɑː).  
  
 Since the last shake-up, things is really tough. I wouldn’t forget it, pal. Not ever.”  
I looked at my watch. “Okey, if I think of anything, it’s yours. And when you get the mug, I’ll identify it for you. After lunch.” We shook hands and I went down the mud-colored hall and stairway to the front of the building and my car.  
  
  
ɪt wɒz ˈtuː ˈaʊəz sɪns muːs məˌlɔɪ həd left ˈflɔːiən’ˈes wɪð ðə ˈɑːmi kəʊlt ɪn hɪz hænd. ˈaɪ et ˈlʌntʃ ət ə ˈdrʌɡstɔː(r), ˈbɔːt ə paɪnt əv ˈbɜːbən, ənd drəʊv ˈiːstwəd tuː ˈsentrəl ˈævənjuː ənd nɔːθ ɒn ˈsentrəl əˈɡen. ðə hʌntʃ ˈaɪ həd wɒz əz veɪɡ əz ðə hiːt weɪvz ðæt dɑːnst əˈbʌv ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk.  
ˈnʌθɪŋ ˈmeɪd ɪt maɪ ˈbɪznəs ɪkˈsept ˌkjʊərɪˈɒsɪti. bʌt ˈstrɪkli ˈspiːkɪŋ, ˈaɪ hadn’tiː həd ˈeni ˈbɪznəs ɪn ə mʌnθ.  
  
  
It was two hours since Moose Malloy had left Florian’s with the Army Colt in his hand. I ate lunch at a drugstore, bought a pint of bourbon, and drove eastward to Central Avenue and north on Central again. The hunch I had was as vague as the heat waves that danced above the sidewalk.  
Nothing made it my business except curiosity. But strictly speaking, I hadn’t had any business in a month.  
  
 ˈiːvn̩ ə nəʊ-tʃɑːdʒ dʒɒb wɒz ə tʃeɪndʒ.  
  
 Even a no-charge job was a change.  
  
4  
ˈflɔːiən’ˈes wɒz kləʊzd ʌp, əv kɔːs. ən ˈɒbvɪəs ˈpleɪnˈkləʊðzˈmæn sæt ɪn frʌnt əv ɪt ɪn ə kɑː(ɑː), ˈriːdɪŋ ə ˈpeɪpə(ɑː) wɪð wʌn aɪ. ˈaɪ didn’tiː nəʊ waɪ ˈðeɪ ˈbɒðəd. ˈnəʊbədi ðeə(ɑː) njuː ˈeniθɪŋ əˈbaʊt muːs məˌlɔɪ. ðə ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː) ənd ðə ˈbɑːmən həd nɒt biːn faʊnd. ˈnəʊbədi ɒn ðə ˈblɒk njuː ˈeniθɪŋ əˈbaʊt ðem, fɔː(ɑː) ˈtɔːkɪŋ ˈpɜːpəsɪz.  
  
4  
Florian’s was closed up, of course. An obvious plainclothesman sat in front of it in a car, reading a paper with one eye. I didn’t know why they bothered. Nobody there knew anything about Moose Malloy. The bouncer and the barman had not been found. Nobody on the block knew anything about them, for talking purposes.  
  
  
ˈaɪ drəʊv pɑːst ˈsləʊli ənd pɑːkt əˈraʊnd ðə ˈkɔːnə(ɑː) ənd sæt ˈlʊkɪŋ ət ə ˈniːɡrəʊ ˌhəʊˈtel wɪtʃ wɒz daɪˈæɡənəli əˈkrɒs ðə ˈblɒk frəm ˈflɔːiən’ˈes ənd bɪˈjɒnd ðə ˈnɪərɪst ˌɪntəˈsekʃn̩. ɪt wɒz kɔːld ðə ˌhəʊˈtel sænz Souci. ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt ˈaʊt ənd ˈwɔːkt ˈbæk əˈkrɒs ðə ˌɪntəˈsekʃn̩ ənd ˈwent ˈɪntə ɪt. ˈtuː raʊz əv hɑːd ˈempti tʃeəz steəd ət iːtʃ ˈʌðə(ɑː) əˈkrɒs ə strɪp əv tæn ˈfaɪbə(ɑː) ˈkɑːpɪt.  
  
  
I drove past slowly and parked around the corner and sat looking at a Negro hotel which was diagonally across the block from Florian’s and beyond the nearest intersection. It was called the Hotel Sans Souci. I got out and walked back across the intersection and went into it. Two rows of hard empty chairs stared at each other across a strip of tan fiber carpet.  
  
 ə desk wɒz ˈbæk ɪn ðə ˈdɪmnəs ənd bɪˈhaɪnd ðə desk ə baldheaded mæn həd hɪz aɪz ʃʌt ənd hɪz sɒft braʊn hændz klɑːspt ˈpiːsfəli ɒn ðə desk ɪn frʌnt əv hɪm. hiː dəʊzd, ɔː(ɑː) əˈpɪəd tuː. hiː wɔː(ɑː) ən ˈæskət taɪ ðæt lʊkt əz ɪf ɪt həd biːn taɪd əˈbaʊt ðə ˈjiə(ɑː) 1880. ðə ˈɡriːn stəʊn ɪn hɪz ˈstɪkpɪn wɒz nɒt kwaɪt əz lɑːdʒ əz ən ˈæpl̩.  
  
 A desk was back in the dimness and behind the desk a baldheaded man had his eyes shut and his soft brown hands clasped peacefully on the desk in front of him. He dozed, or appeared to. He wore an Ascot tie that looked as if it had been tied about the year 1880. The green stone in his stickpin was not quite as large as an apple.  
  
 hɪz lɑːdʒ luːs tʃɪn wɒz ˈfəʊldɪd daʊn ˈdʒentli ɒn ðə taɪ, ənd hɪz ˈfəʊldɪd hændz wɜː(ɑː) ˈpiːsfəl ənd kliːn, wɪð ˈmænɪkjʊəd neɪlz, ənd ɡreɪ halfmoons ɪn ðə ˈpɜːpl̩ əv ðə neɪlz.  
ə ˈmetl̩ ɪmˈbɒst saɪn ət hɪz ˈelbəʊ ˈsed: “ðɪs ˌhəʊˈtel ɪz ˈʌndə(ɑː) ðə prəˈtekʃn̩ əv ðə ˌɪntəˈnæʃn̩əl kənˈsɒlɪdeɪtɪd ˈeɪdʒənsiz, ˈlɪmɪtɪd. ɪŋk.”  
wen ðə ˈpiːsfəl braʊn mæn ˈəʊpənd wʌn aɪ ət miː ˈθɔːtfəli ˈaɪ ˈpɔɪntɪd ət ðə saɪn.  
“eɪtʃ.ˈpiː.diː.  
  
 His large loose chin was folded down gently on the tie, and his folded hands were peaceful and clean, with manicured nails, and gray halfmoons in the purple of the nails.  
A metal embossed sign at his elbow said: “This Hotel is Under the Protection of The International Consolidated Agencies, Ltd. Inc.”  
When the peaceful brown man opened one eye at me thoughtfully I pointed at the sign.  
“H.P.D.  
  
 mæn ˈtʃekɪŋ ʌp. ˈeni ˈtrʌbl̩ hɪə(ɑː)?”  
eɪtʃ.ˈpiː.diː. miːnz ˌhəʊˈtel prəˈtektɪv dɪˈpɑːtmənt, wɪtʃ ɪz ðə dɪˈpɑːtmənt əv ə lɑːdʒ ˈeɪdʒənsi ðæt lʊks ˈɑːftə(ɑː) tʃek ˈbaʊnsə(ɑː)z ənd ˈpiːpl̩ huː muːv ˈaʊt baɪ ðə ˈbæk steəz ˈliːvɪŋ ʌnˈpeɪd bɪlz ənd ˈsekənd-hænd ˈsuːtkeɪsɪz fʊl əv brɪks.  
“ˈtrʌbl̩, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː),” ðə klɑːk ˈsed ɪn ə haɪ səˈnɔːrəs vɔɪs, “ɪz ˈsʌmθɪŋ wiː ɪz freʃ ˈaʊt əv.  
  
 man checking up. Any trouble here?”  
H.P.D. means Hotel Protective Department, which is the department of a large agency that looks after check bouncers and people who move out by the back stairs leaving unpaid bills and second-hand suitcases full of bricks.  
“Trouble, brother,” the clerk said in a high sonorous voice, “is something we is fresh out of.  
  
” hiː ˈləʊəd hɪz vɔɪs fɔː(ɑː) ɔː(ɑː) faɪv ˈnɒtʃɪz ənd ˈædɪd “ˈwɒt wɒz ðə ˈneɪm əˈɡen?”  
“ˈmɑːˌləʊ ˈfɪlɪp ˈmɑːˌləʊ—“  
“ə naɪs ˈneɪm, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː). kliːn ənd ˈtʃɪəfəl. juː’riː ˈlʊkɪŋ raɪt wel təˈdeɪ.” hiː ˈləʊəd hɪz vɔɪs əˈɡen. “bʌt juː ain’tiː nəʊ eɪtʃ.ˈpiː.diː. mæn. Ain’tiː ˈsiːn wʌn ɪn ˈjiəz.” hiː ʌnˈrəʊld hɪz hændz ənd ˈpɔɪntɪd ˈlæŋɡwɪdli ət ðə saɪn. “ˈaɪ əˈkwaɪəd ðæt ˈsekənd-hænd, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː), dʒəst fɔː(ɑː) ðə ɪˈfekt.  
  
” He lowered his voice four or five notches and added “What was the name again?”  
“Marlowe Philip Marlowe—“  
“A nice name, brother. Clean and cheerful. You’re looking right well today.” He lowered his voice again. “But you ain’t no H.P.D. man. Ain’t seen one in years.” He unrolled his hands and pointed languidly at the sign. “I acquired that second-hand, brother, just for the effect.  
  
”  
“ˈoki,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. ˈaɪ liːnd ɒn ðə ˈkaʊntə(ɑː) ənd ˈstɑːtɪd tuː spɪn ə hɑːf ˈdɒlə(ɑː) ɒn ðə beə(ɑː), skɑːd wʊd əv ðə ˈkaʊntə(ɑː).  
“hɜːd ˈwɒt ˈhæpənd ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ət ˈflɔːiən’ˈes ðɪs ˈmɔːnɪŋ?”  
“ˈbrʌðə(ɑː), ˈaɪ forgit.” bəʊθ hɪz aɪz wɜː(ɑː) ˈəʊpən naʊ ənd hiː wɒz ˈwɒtʃɪŋ ðə blɜː(ɑː) əv laɪt ˈmeɪd baɪ ðə ˈspɪnɪŋ kɔɪn.  
“ðə bɒs ˈɡɒt bʌmpt ɒf,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “mæn ˈneɪmd mantˈɡəmri. ˈsʌmbədi brəʊk hɪz nek.  
  
”  
“Okey,” I said. I leaned on the counter and started to spin a half dollar on the bare, scarred wood of the counter.  
“Heard what happened over at Florian’s this morning?”  
“Brother, I forgit.” Both his eyes were open now and he was watching the blur of light made by the spinning coin.  
“The boss got bumped off,” I said. “Man named Montgomery. Somebody broke his neck.  
  
”  
“meɪ ðə Lawd rɪˈsiːv hɪz səʊl, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː).” daʊn ˈwent ðə vɔɪs əˈɡen. “kɒp?”  
“ˈpraɪvɪt—ɒn ə ˌkɒnfɪˈdenʃl̩ leɪ. ənd ˈaɪ nəʊ ə mæn huː kæn kiːp ˈθɪŋz ˌkɒnfɪˈdenʃl̩ wen ˈaɪ ˈsiː wʌn.”  
hiː ˈstʌdɪd miː, ðen kləʊzd hɪz aɪz ənd ˈθɔːt. hiː riːˈəʊpənd ðem ˈkɔːʃəsli ənd steəd ət ðə ˈspɪnɪŋ kɔɪn. hiː couldn’tiː rɪˈzɪst ˈlʊkɪŋ ət ɪt.  
“huː dʌn ɪt?” hiː ˈɑːskt ˈsɒftli. “huː fɪkst sæm?  
  
”  
“May the Lawd receive his soul, brother.” Down went the voice again. “Cop?”  
“Private—on a confidential lay. And I know a man who can keep things confidential when I see one.”  
He studied me, then closed his eyes and thought. He reopened them cautiously and stared at the spinning coin. He couldn’t resist looking at it.  
“Who done it?” he asked softly. “Who fixed Sam?  
  
”  
“ə tʌf ɡaɪ ˈaʊt əv ðə ˈdʒeɪlˌhɑːws ˈɡɒt sɔː(r) bɪˈkɒz ɪt wasn’tiː ə waɪt dʒɔɪnt. ɪt ˈjuːzd tuː bi, ɪt ˈsiːmz. ˈmeɪbiː juː rɪˈmembə(ɑː)?”  
hiː ˈsed ˈnʌθɪŋ. ðə kɔɪn fel ˈəʊvə(ɑː) wɪð ə laɪt ˈrɪŋɪŋ wɜː(ɑː) ənd leɪ stɪl.  
“kɔːl jɔː(ɑː) ˈpleɪ,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ˈaɪ’laɪnz riːd juː ə ˈtʃæptə(ɑː) əv ðə ˈbaɪbl̩ ɔː(ɑː) baɪ juː ə drɪŋk. ˈseɪ wɪtʃ.”  
“ˈbrʌðə(ɑː), ˈaɪ kaɪnd əv ˈlaɪk tuː riːd maɪ ˈbaɪbl̩ ɪn ðə sɪˈkluːʒn̩ əv maɪ ˈfæməli.  
  
”  
“A tough guy out of the jailhouse got sore because it wasn’t a white joint. It used to be, it seems. Maybe you remember?”  
He said nothing. The coin fell over with a light ringing whirr and lay still.  
“Call your play,” I said. “I’ll read you a chapter of the Bible or buy you a drink. Say which.”  
“Brother, I kind of like to read my Bible in the seclusion of my family.  
  
” hɪz aɪz wɜː(ɑː) braɪt, toadlike, ˈstedi.  
“ˈmeɪbiː juː’ˈviː dʒəst həd ˈlʌntʃ,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.  
“ˈlʌntʃ,” hiː ˈsed, “ɪz ˈsʌmθɪŋ ə mæn əv maɪ ʃeɪp ənd ˌdɪspəˈzɪʃn̩ eɪmz tuː duː wɪðˈaʊt.” daʊn ˈwent ðə vɔɪs. “kʌm ‘ˈraʊnd ðɪs hɪə(ɑː) saɪd əv ðə desk.”  
ˈaɪ ˈwent əˈraʊnd ənd druː ðə flæt paɪnt əv ˈbɒndɪd ˈbɜːbən ˈaʊt əv maɪ ˈpɒkɪt ənd ˈpʊt ɪt ɒn ðə ʃelf. ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈbæk tuː ðə frʌnt əv ðə desk. hiː bent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ənd ɪɡˈzæmɪnd ɪt.  
  
” His eyes were bright, toadlike, steady.  
“Maybe you’ve just had lunch,” I said.  
“Lunch,” he said, “is something a man of my shape and disposition aims to do without.” Down went the voice. “Come ‘round this here side of the desk.”  
I went around and drew the flat pint of bonded bourbon out of my pocket and put it on the shelf. I went back to the front of the desk. He bent over and examined it.  
  
 hiː lʊkt ˈsætɪsfaɪd.  
“ˈbrʌðə(ɑː), ðɪs dɒn’tiː baɪ juː ˈnʌθɪŋ ət ɔːl,” hiː ˈsed. “bʌt ˈaɪ ɪz pliːzd tuː teɪk ə laɪt ˈsnɪftə(r) ɪn jɔː(ɑː) ˈkʌmpəni.”  
hiː ˈəʊpənd ðə ˈbɒtl̩, ˈpʊt ˈtuː smɔːl ˈɡlɑːsɪz ɒn ðə desk ənd ˈkwaɪətli pɔːd iːtʃ fʊl tuː ðə brɪm. hiː ˈlɪftɪd wʌn, snɪft ɪt ˈkeəfəli, ənd pɔːd ɪt daʊn hɪz θrəʊt wɪð hɪz ˈlɪtl̩ ˈfɪŋɡə(ɑː) ˈlɪftɪd.  
  
 He looked satisfied.  
“Brother, this don’t buy you nothing at all,” he said. “But I is pleased to take a light snifter in your company.”  
He opened the bottle, put two small glasses on the desk and quietly poured each full to the brim. He lifted one, sniffed it carefully, and poured it down his throat with his little finger lifted.  
  
  
hiː ˈteɪstɪd ɪt, ˈθɔːt əˈbaʊt ɪt, ˈnɒdɪd ənd ˈsed: “ðɪs kʌm ˈaʊt əv ðə kəˈrekt ˈbɒtl̩, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː). ɪn ˈwɒt ˈmænə(ɑː) kæn ˈaɪ bi əv ˈsɜːvɪs tuː juː? ðeə(ɑː) ain’tiː ə kræk ɪn ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk ‘ˈraʊnd hɪə(ɑː) ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː nəʊ baɪ ɪts ˈfɜːst ˈneɪm. Yessuh, ðɪs ˈlɪkə(r) hæz biːn keepin’ ðə raɪt ˈkʌmpəni.” hiː ˌriːˈfɪld hɪz ˈɡlɑːs.  
ˈaɪ təʊld hɪm ˈwɒt həd ˈhæpənd ət ˈflɔːiən’ˈes ənd waɪ.  
  
  
He tasted it, thought about it, nodded and said: “This come out of the correct bottle, brother. In what manner can I be of service to you? There ain’t a crack in the sidewalk ‘round here I don’t know by its first name. Yessuh, this liquor has been keepin’ the right company.” He refilled his glass.  
I told him what had happened at Florian’s and why.  
  
 hiː ˈstɑːtɪd ət miː ˈsɒləmli ənd ʃʊk hɪz bɔːld hed.  
“ə naɪs ˈkwaɪət ˈpleɪs sæm rʌn tuː,” hiː ˈsed. “Ain’tiː ˈnəʊbədi biːn naɪft ðeə(ɑː) ɪn ə mʌnθ.”  
“wen ˈflɔːiən’ˈes wɒz ə waɪt dʒɔɪnt sʌm sɪks ɔː(ɑː) eɪt ˈjiəz əˈɡəʊ ɔː(ɑː) les, ˈwɒt wɒz ðə ˈneɪm əv ɪt?”  
“ɪˈlektrɪk saɪnz kʌm kaɪnd əv haɪ, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː).”  
ˈaɪ ˈnɒdɪd. “ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt ɪt maɪt həv həd ðə seɪm ˈneɪm.  
  
 He started at me solemnly and shook his bald head.  
“A nice quiet place Sam run too,” he said. “Ain’t nobody been knifed there in a month.”  
“When Florian’s was a white joint some six or eight years ago or less, what was the name of it?”  
“Electric signs come kind of high, brother.”  
I nodded. “I thought it might have had the same name.  
  
 məˌlɔɪ wʊd ˈprɒbəbli həv ˈsed ˈsʌmθɪŋ ɪf ðə ˈneɪm həd biːn tʃeɪndʒd. bʌt huː ræn ɪt?”  
“ˈaɪ’em ə maɪt səˈpraɪzd ət juː, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː). ðə ˈneɪm əv ðæt pɔː(r) ˈsɪnə(r) wɒz ˈflɔːiən. maɪk ˈflɔːiən—“  
“ənd ˈwɒt ˈhæpənd tuː maɪk ˈflɔːiən?”  
ðə ˈniːɡrəʊ spred hɪz ˈdʒentl̩ braʊn hændz. hɪz vɔɪs wɒz səˈnɔːrəs ənd sæd. “Daid, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː). ˈɡæðəd tuː ðə Lawd. ˌnaɪnˈtiːn ˈhʌndrəd ənd ˈθɜːti-fɔː(ɑː), ˈmeɪbiː ˈθɜːti-faɪv.  
  
 Malloy would probably have said something if the name had been changed. But who ran it?”  
“I’m a mite surprised at you, brother. The name of that pore sinner was Florian. Mike Florian—“  
“And what happened to Mike Florian?”  
The Negro spread his gentle brown hands. His voice was sonorous and sad. “Daid, brother. Gathered to the Lawd. Nineteen hundred and thirty-four, maybe thirty-five.  
  
 ˈaɪ ain’tiː prɪˈsaɪs ɒn ðæt. ə ˈweɪstɪd laɪf, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː), ənd ə keɪs əv ˈpɪkl̩d ˈkɪdnɪz, ˈaɪ hɜːd ˈseɪ. ðə ʌnˈɡɒdli mæn drɒps ˈlaɪk ə pəʊld stɪə(r), ˈbrʌðə(ɑː), bʌt ˈmɜːsi weɪts fɔː(ɑː) hɪm ʌp ˈjɒndə(ɑː).” hɪz vɔɪs ˈwent daʊn tuː ðə ˈbɪznəs ˈlevl̩. “ˈdæm ɪf ˈaɪ nəʊ waɪ.”  
“huː dɪd hiː liːv bɪˈhaɪnd hɪm? pɔː(ɑː) əˈnʌðə(ɑː) drɪŋk.”  
hiː kɔːkt ðə ˈbɒtl̩ ˈfɜːmli ənd pʊʃt ɪt əˈkrɒs ðə ˈkaʊntə(ɑː). “ˈtuː ɪz ɔːl, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː)—bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) ˈsʌndaʊn.  
  
 I ain’t precise on that. A wasted life, brother, and a case of pickled kidneys, I heard say. The ungodly man drops like a polled steer, brother, but mercy waits for him up yonder.” His voice went down to the business level. “Damm if I know why.”  
“Who did he leave behind him? Pour another drink.”  
He corked the bottle firmly and pushed it across the counter. “Two is all, brother—before sundown.  
  
 ˈaɪ θæŋk juː. jɔː(ɑː) ˈmeθəd əv əˈprəʊtʃ ɪz soothin’ tuː ə mæn’ˈes ˈdɪɡnɪti . . . left ə ˈwɪdəʊ. ˈneɪm əv ˈdʒesi.”  
“ˈwɒt ˈhæpənd tuː hɜː(ɑː)?”  
“ðə pəˈsjuːt əv ˈnɒlɪdʒ, ˈbrʌðə(ɑː), ɪz ðə əˈskɪn’ əv ˈmeni ˈkwestʃənz. ˈaɪ ain’tiː hɜːd. ˈtraɪ ðə fəʊn bʊk.”  
ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə buːð ɪn ðə dɑːk ˈkɔːnə(ɑː) əv ðə ˈlɒbi. ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ənd ʃʌt ðə dɔː(ɑː) ˈfɑː(ɑː) ɪˈnʌf tuː ˈpʊt ðə laɪt ɒn.  
  
 I thank you. Your method of approach is soothin’ to a man’s dignity . . . Left a widow. Name of Jessie.”  
“What happened to her?”  
“The pursuit of knowledge, brother, is the askin’ of many questions. I ain’t heard. Try the phone book.”  
There was a booth in the dark corner of the lobby. I went over and shut the door far enough to put the light on.  
  
 ˈaɪ lʊkt ʌp ðə ˈneɪm ɪn ðə tʃeɪnd ənd ˈbætəd bʊk. nəʊ ˈflɔːiən ɪn ɪt ət ɔːl. ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈbæk tuː ðə desk.  
“nəʊ səʊp,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.  
ðə ˈniːɡrəʊ bent rɪˈɡretfəli ənd hiːvd ə ˈsɪti dɪˈrektəri ʌp ɒn tɒp əv ðə desk ənd pʊʃt ɪt təˈwɔːdz miː. hiː kləʊzd hɪz aɪz. hiː wɒz ˈɡetɪŋ bɔːd. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈdʒesi ˈflɔːiən, ˈwɪdəʊ, ɪn ðə bʊk. ʃiː lɪvd ət 1644 west 54th ˈpleɪs.  
  
 I looked up the name in the chained and battered book. No Florian in it at all. I went back to the desk.  
“No soap,” I said.  
The Negro bent regretfully and heaved a city directory up on top of the desk and pushed it towards me. He closed his eyes. He was getting bored. There was a Jessie Florian, Widow, in the book. She lived at 1644 West 54th Place.  
  
 ˈaɪ ˈwʌndəd ˈwɒt ˈaɪ həd biːn ˈjuːzɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) breɪnz ɔːl maɪ laɪf.  
ˈaɪ rəʊt ðə əˈdres daʊn ɒn ə piːs əv ˈpeɪpə(ɑː) ənd pʊʃt ðə dɪˈrektəri ˈbæk əˈkrɒs ðə desk. ðə ˈniːɡrəʊ ˈpʊt ɪt ˈbæk weə(ɑː) hiː həd faʊnd ɪt, ʃʊk hændz wɪð miː, ðen ˈfəʊldɪd hɪz hændz ɒn ðə desk ɪɡˈzæktli weə(ɑː) ˈðeɪ həd biːn wen ˈaɪ keɪm ɪn. hɪz aɪz druːpt ˈsləʊli ənd hiː əˈpɪəd tuː fɔːl əˈsliːp.  
ðə ˈɪnsɪdənt fɔː(ɑː) hɪm wɒz ˈəʊvə(ɑː).  
  
 I wondered what I had been using for brains all my life.  
I wrote the address down on a piece of paper and pushed the directory back across the desk. The Negro put it back where he had found it, shook hands with me, then folded his hands on the desk exactly where they had been when I came in. His eyes drooped slowly and he appeared to fall asleep.  
The incident for him was over.  
  
 hɑːfˈweɪ tuː ðə dɔː(ɑː) ˈaɪ ʃɒt ə ɡlɑːns ˈbæk ət hɪm. hɪz aɪz wɜː(ɑː) kləʊzd ənd hiː briːðd ˈsɒftli ənd ˈreɡjʊləli, ˈbləʊɪŋ ə ˈlɪtl̩ wɪð hɪz lɪps ət ðə end əv iːtʃ breθ. hɪz bɔːld hed ʃɒn.  
ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈaʊt əv ðə ˌhəʊˈtel sænz Souci ənd krɒst ðə striːt tuː maɪ kɑː(ɑː). ɪt lʊkt tuː ˈiːzi. ɪt lʊkt ˈmʌtʃ tuː ˈiːzi.  
  
 Halfway to the door I shot a glance back at him. His eyes were closed and he breathed softly and regularly, blowing a little with his lips at the end of each breath. His bald head shone.  
I went out of the Hotel Sans Souci and crossed the street to my car. It looked too easy. It looked much too easy.  
  
  
  
  
  
5  
1644 west 54th ˈpleɪs wɒz ə draɪd-ˈaʊt braʊn ˈhaʊs wɪð ə draɪd-ˈaʊt braʊn lɔːn ɪn frʌnt əv ɪt. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə lɑːdʒ beə(ɑː) pætʃ əˈraʊnd ə tʌf-ˈlʊkɪŋ pɑːm triː. ɒn ðə pɔːtʃ stʊd wʌn ˈləʊnli ˈwʊdn̩ ˈrɒkə(r), ənd ðə ˌɑːftəˈnuːn briːz ˈmeɪd ðə unpruned ʃuːts əv lɑːst ˈjiə(ɑː)’ˈes pɔɪnˈsetɪəz tæp-tæp əˈɡenst ðə krækt ˈstʌkəʊ wɔːl.  
  
5  
1644 West 54th Place was a dried-out brown house with a dried-out brown lawn in front of it. There was a large bare patch around a tough-looking palm tree. On the porch stood one lonely wooden rocker, and the afternoon breeze made the unpruned shoots of last year’s poinsettias tap-tap against the cracked stucco wall.  
  
 ə laɪn əv stɪf ˈjeləʊɪʃ hɑːf-wɒʃt kləʊðz jittered ɒn ə ˈrʌsti ˈwaɪə(ɑː) ɪn ðə saɪd jɑːd.  
ˈaɪ drəʊv ɒn ə ˈkwɔːtə(r) ˈblɒk, pɑːkt maɪ kɑː(ɑː) əˈkrɒs ðə striːt ənd ˈwɔːkt ˈbæk.  
ðə bel didn’tiː ˈwɜːk ˈsəʊ ˈaɪ ræpt ɒn ðə ˈwʊdn̩ ˈmɑːdʒɪn əv ðə skriːn dɔː(ɑː). sləʊ steps ˈʃʌfl̩d ənd ðə dɔː(ɑː) ˈəʊpənd ənd ˈaɪ wɒz ˈlʊkɪŋ ˈɪntə ˈdɪmnəs ət ə blowsy ˈwʊmən huː wɒz ˈbləʊɪŋ hɜː(ɑː) nəʊz əz ʃiː ˈəʊpənd ðə dɔː(ɑː).  
  
 A line of stiff yellowish half-washed clothes jittered on a rusty wire in the side yard.  
I drove on a quarter block, parked my car across the street and walked back.  
The bell didn’t work so I rapped on the wooden margin of the screen door. Slow steps shuffled and the door opened and I was looking into dimness at a blowsy woman who was blowing her nose as she opened the door.  
  
 hɜː(ɑː) feɪs wɒz ɡreɪ ənd ˈpʌfi. ʃiː həd ˈwiːdi heə(ɑː) əv ðæt veɪɡ ˈkʌlər wɪtʃ ɪz ˈnaɪðə(ɑː) braʊn nɔː(ɑː) blɒnd, ðæt hasn’tiː ɪˈnʌf laɪf ɪn ɪt tuː bi ˈdʒɪndʒə(ɑː), ənd isn’tiː kliːn ɪˈnʌf tuː bi ɡreɪ. hɜː(ɑː) ˈbɒdi wɒz θɪk ɪn ə ˈʃeɪpləs ˈaʊtɪŋ ˈflænl̩ ˈbɑːθrəʊb ˈmeni muːnz pɑːst ˈkʌlər ənd dɪˈzaɪn. ɪt wɒz dʒəst ˈsʌmθɪŋ əˈraʊnd hɜː(ɑː) ˈbɒdi. hɜː(ɑː) təʊz wɜː(ɑː) lɑːdʒ ənd ˈɒbvɪəs ɪn ə peə(r) əv mæn’ˈes ˈslɪpəz əv skʌft braʊn ˈleðə(r).  
  
 Her face was gray and puffy. She had weedy hair of that vague color which is neither brown nor blond, that hasn’t enough life in it to be ginger, and isn’t clean enough to be gray. Her body was thick in a shapeless outing flannel bathrobe many moons past color and design. It was just something around her body. Her toes were large and obvious in a pair of man’s slippers of scuffed brown leather.  
  
  
ˈaɪ ˈsed: “ˈmɪsɪz. ˈflɔːiən? ˈmɪsɪz. ˈdʒesi ˈflɔːiən?”  
“ˈə-hʌ,” ðə vɔɪs dræɡd ɪtˈself ˈaʊt əv hɜː(ɑː) θrəʊt ˈlaɪk ə sɪk mæn ˈɡetɪŋ ˈaʊt əv bed.  
“juː ə(ɑː) ðə ˈmɪsɪz. ˈflɔːiən huːz ˈhʌzbənd wʌns ræn ə ˈpleɪs əv ˌentəˈteɪnmənt ɒn ˈsentrəl ˈævənjuː? maɪk ˈflɔːiən?”  
ʃiː ˈθʌmd ə wɪk əv heə(ɑː) pɑːst hɜː(ɑː) lɑːdʒ ɪə(ɑː). hɜː(ɑː) aɪz ˈɡlɪtəd wɪð səˈpraɪz. hɜː(ɑː) ˈhevi klɒɡd vɔɪs ˈsed:  
“Wha-ˈwɒt? maɪ ˈɡʊdnəs seɪks əˈlaɪv.  
  
  
I said: “Mrs. Florian? Mrs. Jessie Florian?”  
“Uh-huh,” the voice dragged itself out of her throat like a sick man getting out of bed.  
“You are the Mrs. Florian whose husband once ran a place of entertainment on Central Avenue? Mike Florian?”  
She thumbed a wick of hair past her large ear. Her eyes glittered with surprise. Her heavy clogged voice said:  
“Wha-what? My goodness sakes alive.  
  
 maɪk’ˈes biːn ɡɒn ðiːz faɪv ˈjiəz. huː dɪd juː ˈseɪ juː wɒz?”  
ðə skriːn dɔː(ɑː) wɒz stɪl ʃʌt ənd hʊkt.  
“ˈaɪ’em ə dɪˈtektɪv,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ˈaɪ’diː ˈlaɪk ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˌɪnfəˈmeɪʃn̩.”  
ʃiː steəd ət miː ə ˈlɒŋ ˈdrɪəri maɪˈnjuːt. ðen wɪð ˈefət ʃiː ʌnˈhʊkt ðə dɔː(ɑː) ənd tɜːnd əˈweɪ frəm ɪt.  
“kʌm ɒn ɪn ðen. ˈaɪ ain’tiː həd ˈtaɪm tuː ˈɡet kliːnd ʌp ˈdʒet,” ʃiː waɪnd. “kɒps, hʌ?  
  
 Mike’s been gone these five years. Who did you say you was?”  
The screen door was still shut and hooked.  
“I’m a detective,” I said. “I’d like a little information.”  
She stared at me a long dreary minute. Then with effort she unhooked the door and turned away from it.  
“Come on in then. I ain’t had time to get cleaned up yet,” she whined. “Cops, huh?  
  
”  
ˈaɪ stept θruː ðə dɔː(ɑː) ənd hʊkt ðə skriːn əˈɡen. ə lɑːdʒ ˈhænsəm ˈkæbɪnət ˈreɪdɪəʊ drəʊnd tuː ðə left əv ðə dɔː(ɑː) ɪn ðə ˈkɔːnə(ɑː) əv ðə ruːm. ɪt wɒz ðə ˈəʊnli ˈdiːsnt piːs əv ˈfɜːnɪtʃə(ɑː) ðə ˈpleɪs həd. ɪt lʊkt brænd njuː.  
  
”  
I stepped through the door and hooked the screen again. A large handsome cabinet radio droned to the left of the door in the corner of the room. It was the only decent piece of furniture the place had. It looked brand new.  
  
 ˈevrɪθɪŋ wɒz dʒʌŋk—ˈdɜːti ˌəʊvəˈstʌft ˈpiːsɪz, ə ˈwʊdn̩ ˈrɒkə(r) ðæt mætʃt ðə wʌn ɒn ðə pɔːtʃ, ə skweə(ɑː) ɑːtʃ ˈɪntə ə ˈdaɪnɪŋ ruːm wɪð ə steɪnd ˈteɪbl̩, ˈfɪŋɡə(ɑː) mɑːks ɔːl ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ðə swɪŋ dɔː(ɑː) tuː ðə ˈkɪtʃɪn bɪˈjɒnd. ə ˈkʌpl̩ əv freɪd læmps wɪð wʌns ˈɡɔːdi ʃeɪdz ðæt wɜː(ɑː) naʊ əz ɡeɪ əz ˈsuːpə(r)-annuated ˈstriːtwɔːkəz.  
ðə ˈwʊmən sæt daʊn ɪn ðə ˈrɒkə(r) ənd flɒpt hɜː(ɑː) ˈslɪpəz ənd lʊkt ət miː.  
  
 Everything was junk—dirty overstuffed pieces, a wooden rocker that matched the one on the porch, a square arch into a dining room with a stained table, finger marks all over the swing door to the kitchen beyond. A couple of frayed lamps with once gaudy shades that were now as gay as super-annuated streetwalkers.  
The woman sat down in the rocker and flopped her slippers and looked at me.  
  
 ˈaɪ lʊkt ət ðə ˈreɪdɪəʊ ənd sæt daʊn ət ðə end əv ə ˈdævnpɔːt. ʃiː ˈsɔː miː ˈlʊkɪŋ ət ɪt. ə ˈbəʊɡəs ˈhɑːti, əz wiːk əz ə ˈtʃaɪnəmən’ˈes tiː, muːvd ˈɪntə hɜː(ɑː) feɪs ənd vɔɪs. “ɔːl ðə kɒmp’ny ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt,” ʃiː ˈsed. ðen ʃiː ˈtɪtəd. “maɪk ain’tiː dʌn ˈnʌθɪŋ njuː, hæz hiː? ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː ˈɡet kɒps ˈkɔːlɪŋ ɒn miː ˈmʌtʃ.”  
hɜː(ɑː) ˈtɪtə(r) kənˈteɪnd ə luːs ˌælkəˈhɒlɪk ˈəʊvətəʊn.  
  
 I looked at the radio and sat down at the end of a davenport. She saw me looking at it. A bogus heartiness, as weak as a Chinaman’s tea, moved into her face and voice. “All the comp’ny I got,” she said. Then she tittered. “Mike ain’t done nothing new, has he? I don’t get cops calling on me much.”  
Her titter contained a loose alcoholic overtone.  
  
 ˈaɪ liːnd ˈbæk əˈɡenst ˈsʌmθɪŋ hɑːd, felt fɔː(ɑː) ɪt ənd ˈbrɔːt ʌp ən ˈempti kwɔːt dʒɪn ˈbɒtl̩. ðə ˈwʊmən ˈtɪtəd əˈɡen.  
“ə dʒəʊk ðæt wɒz,” ʃiː ˈsed. “bʌt ˈaɪ həʊp tuː ˈkraɪst ˈðeɪ’ˈes ɪˈnʌf tʃiːp blɒndz weə(ɑː) hiː ɪz. hiː ˈnevə(ɑː) ˈɡɒt ɪˈnʌf əv ðem hɪə(ɑː).”  
“ˈaɪ wɒz ˈθɪŋkɪŋ mɔː(ɑː) əˈbaʊt ə ˈredhed,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.  
“ˈaɪ ɡes hiː kʊd ˈjuːs ə fjuː əv ðem tuː.” hɜː(ɑː) aɪz, ɪt siːmd tuː miː, wɜː(ɑː) nɒt ˈsəʊ veɪɡ naʊ.  
  
 I leaned back against something hard, felt for it and brought up an empty quart gin bottle. The woman tittered again.  
“A joke that was,” she said. “But I hope to Christ they’s enough cheap blondes where he is. He never got enough of them here.”  
“I was thinking more about a redhead,” I said.  
“I guess he could use a few of them too.” Her eyes, it seemed to me, were not so vague now.  
  
 “ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː kɔːl tuː maɪnd. ˈeni ˈspeʃl̩ ˈredhed?”  
“jes. ə ɡɜːl ˈneɪmd ˈvelmə. ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː nəʊ ˈwɒt lɑːst ˈneɪm ʃiː ˈjuːzd ɪkˈsept ðæt ɪt wouldn’tiː bi hɜː(ɑː) rɪəl wʌn. ˈaɪ’em ˈtraɪɪŋ tuː treɪs hɜː(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː) hɜː(ɑː) fəʊks. jɔː(ɑː) ˈpleɪs ɒn ˈsentrəl ɪz ə ˈkʌlərd ˈpleɪs naʊ, ɔːlˈðəʊ ˈðeɪ ˈheɪvn̩’tiː tʃeɪndʒd ðə ˈneɪm, ənd əv kɔːs ðə ˈpiːpl̩ ðeə(ɑː) ˈnevə(ɑː) hɜːd əv hɜː(ɑː). ˈsəʊ ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt əv juː.  
  
 “I don’t call to mind. Any special redhead?”  
“Yes. A girl named Velma. I don’t know what last name she used except that it wouldn’t be her real one. I’m trying to trace her for her folks. Your place on Central is a colored place now, although they haven’t changed the name, and of course the people there never heard of her. So I thought of you.  
  
”  
“hɜː(ɑː) fəʊks ˈteɪkən ðeə(ɑː) ˈtaɪm ˈɡetɪŋ əˈraʊnd tuː ɪt—ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) hɜː(ɑː),” ðə ˈwʊmən ˈsed ˈθɔːtfəli.  
“ðeə(ɑː)’ˈes ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈmʌni ɪnˈvɒlvd. nɒt ˈmʌtʃ. ˈaɪ ɡes ˈðeɪ həv tuː ˈɡet hɜː(ɑː) ɪn ˈɔːdə(ɑː) tuː tʌtʃ ɪt. ˈmʌni ˈʃɑːpənz ðə ˈmeməri.”  
“ˈsəʊ dʌz ˈlɪkə(r),” ðə ˈwʊmən ˈsed. “kaɪnd əv hɒt təˈdeɪ, ain’tiː ɪt? juː ˈsed juː wɒz ə ˈkɒpə(ɑː) ðəʊ.” ˈkʌnɪŋ aɪz, ˈstedi əˈtentɪv feɪs.  
  
”  
“Her folks taken their time getting around to it—looking for her,” the woman said thoughtfully.  
“There’s a little money involved. Not much. I guess they have to get her in order to touch it. Money sharpens the memory.”  
“So does liquor,” the woman said. “Kind of hot today, ain’t it? You said you was a copper though.” Cunning eyes, steady attentive face.  
  
 ðə fiːt ɪn ðə mæn’ˈes ˈslɪpəz didn’tiː muːv.  
ˈaɪ held ʌp ðə ded ˈsəʊldʒə(r) ənd ʃʊk ɪt. ðen ˈaɪ θruː ɪt tuː wʌn saɪd ənd riːtʃt ˈbæk ɒn maɪ hɪp fɔː(ɑː) ðə paɪnt əv bɒnd ˈbɜːbən ðə ˈniːɡrəʊ ˌhəʊˈtel klɑːk ənd ˈaɪ həd ˈbeəli tæpt. ˈaɪ held ɪt ˈaʊt ɒn maɪ niː. ðə ˈwʊmən’ˈes aɪz bɪˈkeɪm fɪkst ɪn ən ɪnˈkredjʊləs steə(r). ðen səˈspɪʃn̩ klaɪmd ɔːl ˈəʊvə(ɑː) hɜː(ɑː) feɪs, ˈlaɪk ə ˈkɪtn̩, bʌt nɒt ˈsəʊ ˈpleɪfəli.  
  
 The feet in the man’s slippers didn’t move.  
I held up the dead soldier and shook it. Then I threw it to one side and reached back on my hip for the pint of bond bourbon the Negro hotel clerk and I had barely tapped. I held it out on my knee. The woman’s eyes became fixed in an incredulous stare. Then suspicion climbed all over her face, like a kitten, but not so playfully.  
  
  
“juː ain’tiː nəʊ ˈkɒpə(ɑː),” ʃiː ˈsed ˈsɒftli. “nəʊ ˈkɒpə(ɑː) ˈevə(ɑː) ˈbɔːt ə drɪŋk əv ðæt stʌf. ˈwɒt’ˈes ðə ɡæɡ, ˈmɪstə(r)?”  
ʃiː bluː hɜː(ɑː) nəʊz əˈɡen, ɒn wʌn əv ðə ˈdɜːtɪɪst ˈhæŋkətʃɪfs ˈaɪ ˈevə(ɑː) ˈsɔː. hɜː(ɑː) aɪz steɪd ɒn ðə ˈbɒtl̩. səˈspɪʃn̩ ˈfɔːt wɪð θɜːst, ənd θɜːst wɒz ˈwɪnɪŋ. ɪt ˈɔːlweɪz dʌz.  
“ðɪs ˈvelmə wɒz ən ˌentəˈteɪnə(ɑː), ə ˈsɪŋə(r). juː wouldn’tiː nəʊ hɜː(ɑː)? ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː səˈpəʊz juː ˈwent ðeə(ɑː) ˈmʌtʃ.  
  
  
“You ain’t no copper,” she said softly. “No copper ever bought a drink of that stuff. What’s the gag, mister?”  
She blew her nose again, on one of the dirtiest handkerchiefs I ever saw. Her eyes stayed on the bottle. Suspicion fought with thirst, and thirst was winning. It always does.  
“This Velma was an entertainer, a singer. You wouldn’t know her? I don’t suppose you went there much.  
  
”  
ˈsiːwiːd ˈkʌlərd aɪz steɪd ɒn ðə ˈbɒtl̩. ə ˈkəʊtɪd tʌŋ kɔɪld ɒn hɜː(ɑː) lɪps.  
“mæn, ðæt’ˈes ˈlɪkə(r),” ʃiː saɪd. “ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː ɡɪv ə dæm huː juː ə(ɑː). dʒəst həʊld ɪt ˈkeəfʊl, ˈmɪstə(r). ðɪs ain’tiː nəʊ ˈtaɪm tuː drɒp ˈeniθɪŋ.”  
ʃiː ˈɡɒt ʌp ənd ˈwɒdl̩d ˈaʊt əv ðə ruːm ənd kʌm ˈbæk wɪð ˈtuː θɪk smɪəd ˈɡlɑːsɪz.  
“nəʊ fixin’ˈes. dʒəst ˈwɒt juː ˈbrɔːt ɪz ɔːl,” ʃiː ˈsed.  
  
”  
Seaweed colored eyes stayed on the bottle. A coated tongue coiled on her lips.  
“Man, that’s liquor,” she sighed. “I don’t give a damn who you are. Just hold it careful, mister. This ain’t no time to drop anything.”  
She got up and waddled out of the room and come back with two thick smeared glasses.  
“No fixin’s. Just what you brought is all,” she said.  
  
  
ˈaɪ pɔːd hɜː(ɑː) ə slʌɡ ðæt wʊd həv ˈmeɪd miː fləʊt ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ə wɔːl. ʃiː riːtʃt fɔː(ɑː) ɪt ˈhʌŋɡrəli ənd ˈpʊt ɪt daʊn hɜː(ɑː) θrəʊt ˈlaɪk ən ˈæsprɪn ˈtæblɪt ənd lʊkt ət ðə ˈbɒtl̩. ˈaɪ pɔːd hɜː(ɑː) əˈnʌðə(ɑː) ənd ə ˈsmɔːlə(r) wʌn fɔː(ɑː) miː. ʃiː tʊk ɪt ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː hɜː(ɑː) ˈrɒkə(r). hɜː(ɑː) aɪz həd tɜːnd ˈtuː ʃeɪdz ˈbraʊnə(ɑː) ɔːlˈredi.  
“mæn, ðɪs stʌf daɪz ˈpeɪnləs wɪð miː,” ʃiː ˈsed ənd sæt daʊn. “ɪt ˈnevə(ɑː) nəʊz ˈwɒt hɪt ɪt.  
  
  
I poured her a slug that would have made me float over a wall. She reached for it hungrily and put it down her throat like an aspirin tablet and looked at the bottle. I poured her another and a smaller one for me. She took it over to her rocker. Her eyes had turned two shades browner already.  
“Man, this stuff dies painless with me,” she said and sat down. “It never knows what hit it.  
  
 ˈwɒt wɒz wiː ˈtɑːkən’ əˈbaʊt?”  
“ə redhaired ɡɜːl ˈneɪmd ˈvelmə huː ˈjuːzd tuː ˈwɜːk ɪn jɔː(ɑː) ˈpleɪs ɒn ˈsentrəl ˈævənjuː.”  
“jeə.” ʃiː ˈjuːzd hɜː(ɑː) ˈsekənd drɪŋk. ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ənd stʊd ðə ˈbɒtl̩ ɒn ən end bɪˈsaɪd hɜː(ɑː). ʃiː riːtʃt fɔː(ɑː) ɪt. “jeə. huː juː ˈseɪ juː wɒz?”  
ˈaɪ tʊk ˈaʊt ə kɑːd ənd ɡeɪv ɪt tuː hɜː(ɑː). ʃiː riːd ɪt wɪð hɜː(ɑː) tʌŋ ənd lɪps, drɒpt ɪt ɒn ə ˈteɪbl̩ bɪˈsaɪd hɜː(ɑː) ənd set hɜː(ɑː) ˈempti ˈɡlɑːs ɒn ɪt.  
  
 What was we talkin’ about?”  
“A redhaired girl named Velma who used to work in your place on Central Avenue.”  
“Yeah.” She used her second drink. I went over and stood the bottle on an end beside her. She reached for it. “Yeah. Who you say you was?”  
I took out a card and gave it to her. She read it with her tongue and lips, dropped it on a table beside her and set her empty glass on it.  
  
  
“əʊ, ə ˈpraɪvɪt ɡaɪ. juː ain’tiː ˈsed ðæt, ˈmɪstə(r).” ʃiː ˈwæɡl̩d ə ˈfɪŋɡə(ɑː) ət miː wɪð ɡeɪ rɪˈprəʊtʃ. “bʌt jɔː(ɑː) ˈlɪkə(r) ˈsez juː’riː ən ɔːl raɪt ɡaɪ ət ðæt. hɪə(ɑː)’ˈes tuː kraɪm.” ʃiː pɔːd ə ˈθɜːd drɪŋk fɔː(ɑː) hɜːˈself ənd dræŋk ɪt daʊn.  
ˈaɪ sæt daʊn ənd rəʊld ə ˌsɪɡəˈret əˈraʊnd ɪn maɪ ˈfɪŋɡəz ənd ˈweɪtɪd. ʃiː ˈaɪðə(ɑː) njuː ˈsʌmθɪŋ ɔː(ɑː) ʃiː didn’tiː. ɪf ðə njuː ˈsʌmθɪŋ, ʃiː ˈaɪðə(ɑː) wʊd tel miː ɔː(ɑː) ʃiː wouldn’tiː.  
  
  
“Oh, a private guy. You ain’t said that, mister.” She waggled a finger at me with gay reproach. “But your liquor says you’re an all right guy at that. Here’s to crime.” She poured a third drink for herself and drank it down.  
I sat down and rolled a cigarette around in my fingers and waited. She either knew something or she didn’t. If the knew something, she either would tell me or she wouldn’t.  
  
 ɪt wɒz ðæt ˈsɪmpl̩.  
“kjuːt ˈlɪtl̩ ˈredhed,” ʃiː ˈsed ˈsləʊli ənd ˈθɪkli. “jeə, ˈaɪ rɪˈmembə(ɑː) hɜː(ɑː). sɒŋ ənd dɑːns. naɪs leɡz ənd ˈdʒenərəs wɪð ‘əm. ʃiː ˈwent ɒf ˈsəˌmwerz. ˈhaʊ wʊd ˈaɪ nəʊ ˈwɒt ðem træmps duː?”  
“wel, ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈrɪəli ˈθɪŋk juː wʊd nəʊ,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “bʌt ɪt wɒz ˈnætʃrəl tuː kʌm ənd ɑːsk juː, ˈmɪsɪz. ˈflɔːiən. help rourseif tuː ðə ˈwɪski—ˈaɪ kʊd rʌn ˈaʊt fɔː(ɑː) mɔː(ɑː) wen wiː niːd ɪt.  
  
 It was that simple.  
“Cute little redhead,” she said slowly and thickly. “Yeah, I remember her. Song and dance. Nice legs and generous with ‘em. She went off somewheres. How would I know what them tramps do?”  
“Well, I didn’t really think you would know,” I said. “But it was natural to come and ask you, Mrs. Florian. Help rourseif to the whiskey—I could run out for more when we need it.  
  
”  
“juː ain’tiː drinkin’,” ʃiː ˈsed sʌdn̩li.  
ˈaɪ ˈpʊt maɪ hænd əˈraʊnd maɪ ˈɡlɑːs ənd ˈswɒləʊd ˈwɒt wɒz ɪn ɪt ˈsləʊli ɪˈnʌf tuː ˈmeɪk ɪt siːm mɔː(ɑː) ðæn ɪt wɒz.  
“weə(ɑː)’ˈes hɜː(ɑː) fəʊks ət?” ʃiː ˈɑːskt sʌdn̩li.  
“ˈwɒt dʌz ðæt ˈmætə(ɑː)?”  
“ˈoki,” ʃiː snɪəd. “ɔːl kɒps ɪz ðə seɪm. ˈoki, ˈhænsəm. ə ɡaɪ ðæt baɪz miː ə drɪŋk ɪz ə pæl.” ʃiː riːtʃt fɔː(ɑː) ðə ˈbɒtl̩ ənd set ʌp ˈnʌmbə(ɑː) 4.  
  
”  
“You ain’t drinkin’,” she said suddenly.  
I put my hand around my glass and swallowed what was in it slowly enough to make it seem more than it was.  
“Where’s her folks at?” she asked suddenly.  
“What does that matter?”  
“Okey,” she sneered. “All cops is the same. Okey, handsome. A guy that buys me a drink is a pal.” She reached for the bottle and set up Number 4.  
  
 “ˈaɪ shouldn’tiː ˈɔːt tuː ˈbɑːbə(ɑː) wɪð juː. bʌt wen ˈaɪ ˈlaɪk ə ɡaɪ, ðə ˈsiːlɪŋ’ˈes ðə ˈlɪmɪt.” ʃiː ˈsɪmpəd. ʃiː wɒz əz kjuːt əz ə ˈwɒʃtʌb. “həʊld ˈɒntə jɔː(ɑː) heə(ɑː) ənd dɒn’tiː step ɒn nəʊ sneɪks,” ʃiː ˈsed. “ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt miː ən aɪˈdɪə.”  
ʃiː ˈɡɒt ʌp ˈaʊt əv ðə ˈrɒkə(r), sniːzd, ˈɔːlməʊst lɒst ðə ˈbɑːθrəʊb, slæpt ɪt ˈbæk əˈɡenst hɜː(ɑː) ˈstʌmək ənd steəd ət miː ˈkəʊldli.  
  
 “I shouldn’t ought to barber with you. But when I like a guy, the ceiling’s the limit.” She simpered. She was as cute as a washtub. “Hold onto your hair and don’t step on no snakes,” she said. “I got me an idea.”  
She got up out of the rocker, sneezed, almost lost the bathrobe, slapped it back against her stomach and stared at me coldly.  
  
  
“nəʊ peekin’,” ʃiː ˈsed, ənd ˈwent ˈaʊt əv ðə ruːm əˈɡen, ˈhɪtɪŋ ðə dɔː(ɑː) freɪm wɪð hɜː(ɑː) ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː).  
ˈaɪ hɜːd hɜː(ɑː) ˈfʌmbl̩ɪŋ steps ˈɡəʊɪŋ ˈɪntə ðə ˈbæk pɑːt əv ðə ˈhaʊs.  
ðə pɔɪnˈsetɪə ʃuːts tæp-tæpt ˈdʌl li əˈɡenst ðə frʌnt wɔːl. ðə kləʊðz laɪn kriːkt ˈveɪɡli ət ðə saɪd əv ðə ˈhaʊs. ðə aɪs kriːm ˈpedlə(r) ˈwent baɪ ˈrɪŋɪŋ hɪz bel.  
  
  
“No peekin’,” she said, and went out of the room again, hitting the door frame with her shoulder.  
I heard her fumbling steps going into the back part of the house.  
The poinsettia shoots tap-tapped dully against the front wall. The clothes line creaked vaguely at the side of the house. The ice cream peddler went by ringing his bell.  
  
 ðə bɪɡ njuː ˈhænsəm ˈreɪdɪəʊ ɪn ðə ˈkɔːnə(ɑː) ˈwɪspəd əv ˈdɑːnsɪŋ ənd ˈlʌv wɪð ə diːp sɒft ˈθrɒbɪŋ nəʊt ˈlaɪk ðə kætʃ ɪn ə tɔːtʃ ˈsɪŋə(r)’ˈes vɔɪs.  
ðen frəm ðə ˈbæk əv ðə ˈhaʊs ðeə(ɑː) wɜː(ɑː) ˈveərɪəs taɪps əv ˈkræʃɪŋ ˈsaʊndz. ə tʃeə(ɑː) siːmd tuː fɔːl ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ˈbækwədz, ə ˈbjʊərəʊ drɔː(ɑː) wɒz pʊld ˈaʊt tuː ˈfɑː(ɑː) ənd kræʃt tuː ðə flɔː(ɑː), ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ˈfʌmbl̩ɪŋ ənd ˈθʌdɪŋ ənd ˈmʌtəd θɪk ˈlæŋɡwɪdʒ.  
  
 The big new handsome radio in the corner whispered of dancing and love with a deep soft throbbing note like the catch in a torch singer’s voice.  
Then from the back of the house there were various types of crashing sounds. A chair seemed to fall over backwards, a bureau drawer was pulled out too far and crashed to the floor, there was fumbling and thudding and muttered thick language.  
  
 ðen ðə sləʊ klɪk əv ə lɒk ənd ðə skwiːk əv ə trʌŋk tɒp ˈɡəʊɪŋ ʌp. mɔː(ɑː) ˈfʌmbl̩ɪŋ ənd ˈbæŋɪŋ. ə treɪ ˈlændɪd ɒn ðə flɔː(ɑː). ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt ʌp frəm ðə ˈdævnpɔːt ənd sniːkt ˈɪntə ðə ˈdaɪnɪŋ ruːm ənd frəm ðæt ˈɪntə ə ʃɔːt heɪl. ˈaɪ lʊkt əˈraʊnd ðə edʒ əv ən ˈəʊpən dɔː(ɑː).  
  
 Then the slow click of a lock and the squeak of a trunk top going up. More fumbling and banging. A tray landed on the floor. I got up from the davenport and sneaked into the dining room and from that into a short hail. I looked around the edge of an open door.  
  
  
ʃiː wɒz ɪn ðeə(ɑː) ˈsweɪɪŋ ɪn frʌnt əv ðə trʌŋk, ˈmeɪkɪŋ ɡræbz ət ˈwɒt wɒz ɪn ɪt, ənd ðen ˈθrəʊɪŋ hɜː(ɑː) heə(ɑː) ˈbæk ˈəʊvə(ɑː) hɜː(ɑː) ˈfɒrɪd wɪð ˈæŋɡə(ɑː). ʃiː wɒz ˈdrʌŋkə(ɑː) ðæn ʃiː ˈθɔːt. ʃiː liːnd daʊn ənd ˈstedɪd hɜːˈself ɒn ðə trʌŋk ənd kɒft ənd saɪd. ðen ʃiː ˈwent daʊn ɒn hɜː(ɑː) θɪk niːz ənd plʌndʒd bəʊθ hændz ˈɪntə ðə trʌŋk ənd ɡrəʊpt.  
ˈðeɪ keɪm ʌp ˈhəʊldɪŋ ˈsʌmθɪŋ ʌnˈstedɪli.  
  
  
She was in there swaying in front of the trunk, making grabs at what was in it, and then throwing her hair back over her forehead with anger. She was drunker than she thought. She leaned down and steadied herself on the trunk and coughed and sighed. Then she went down on her thick knees and plunged both hands into the trunk and groped.  
They came up holding something unsteadily.  
  
 ə θɪk ˈpækɪdʒ taɪd wɪð ˈfeɪdɪd pɪŋk teɪp. ˈsləʊli, ˈklʌmzɪli, ʃiː ʌnˈdɪd ðə teɪp. ʃiː slɪpt ən ˈenvələʊp ˈaʊt əv ðə ˈpækɪdʒ ənd liːnd daʊn əˈɡen tuː ˈθrʌst ðə ˈenvələʊp ˈaʊt əv saɪt ˈɪntə ðə raɪt-hænd saɪd əv ðə trʌŋk. ʃiː retied ðə teɪp wɪð ˈfʌmbl̩ɪŋ ˈfɪŋɡəz.  
ˈaɪ sniːkt ˈbæk ðə ˈweɪ ˈaɪ həd kʌm ənd sæt daʊn ɒn ðə ˈdævnpɔːt.  
  
 A thick package tied with faded pink tape. Slowly, clumsily, she undid the tape. She slipped an envelope out of the package and leaned down again to thrust the envelope out of sight into the right-hand side of the trunk. She retied the tape with fumbling fingers.  
I sneaked back the way I had come and sat down on the davenport.  
  
 ˈbriːðɪŋ ˈstɜːtərəs ˈnɔɪzɪz, ðə ˈwʊmən keɪm ˈbæk ˈɪntə ðə ˈlɪvɪŋ ruːm ənd stʊd ˈsweɪɪŋ ɪn ðə ˈdɔːweɪ wɪð ðə teɪp-taɪd ˈpækɪdʒ.  
ʃiː ɡrɪnd ət miː traɪˈʌmfəntli, tɒst ðə ˈpækɪdʒ ənd ɪt fel ˈsʌmweə(ɑː) nɪə(ɑː) maɪ fiːt. ʃiː ˈwɒdl̩d ˈbæk tuː ðə ˈrɒkə(r) ənd sæt daʊn ənd riːtʃt fɔː(ɑː) ðə ˈwɪski.  
ˈaɪ pɪkt ðə ˈpækɪdʒ ɒf ðə flɔː(ɑː) ənd ʌnˈtaɪd ðə ˈfeɪdɪd pɪŋk teɪp.  
“lʊk ‘əm ˈəʊvə(ɑː),” ðə ˈwʊmən ˈɡrʌntɪd.  
  
 Breathing stertorous noises, the woman came back into the living room and stood swaying in the doorway with the tape-tied package.  
She grinned at me triumphantly, tossed the package and it fell somewhere near my feet. She waddled back to the rocker and sat down and reached for the whiskey.  
I picked the package off the floor and untied the faded pink tape.  
“Look ‘em over,” the woman grunted.  
  
 “ˈfəʊtəʊz. ˈnjuːspeɪpə(ɑː) stɪlz. nɒt ðæt ðem træmps ˈevə(ɑː) ˈɡɒt ɪn nəʊ ˈnjuːspeɪpəz ɪkˈsept baɪ ˈweɪ əv ðə pəˈliːs ˈblɒtə(ɑː). ˈpiːpl̩ frəm ðə dʒɔɪnt ˈðeɪ ə(ɑː). ˈðeɪ’riː ɔːl ðə ˈbɑːstəd left miː—ðem ənd hɪz əʊld kləʊðz.”  
ˈaɪ liːft θruː ðə bʌntʃ əv ˈʃaɪni ˈfəʊtəɡrɑːfs əv men ənd ˈwɪmɪn ɪn prəˈfeʃnəl ˈpəʊzɪz. ðə men həd ʃɑːp ˈfɒksi ˈfeɪsɪz ənd ˈreɪstræk kləʊðz ɔː(ɑː) ekˈsentrɪk clownlike ˈmeɪkʌp.  
  
 “Photos. Newspaper stills. Not that them tramps ever got in no newspapers except by way of the police blotter. People from the joint they are. They’re all the bastard left me—them and his old clothes.”  
I leafed through the bunch of shiny photographs of men and women in professional poses. The men had sharp foxy faces and racetrack clothes or eccentric clownlike makeup.  
  
 Hoofers ənd ˈkɒmɪks frəm ðə ˈfɪlɪŋ ˈsteɪʃn̩ ˈsɜːkɪt. nɒt ˈmeni əv ðem wʊd ˈevə(ɑː) ˈɡet west əv meɪn striːt.  
  
 Hoofers and comics from the filling station circuit. Not many of them would ever get west of Main Street.  
  
 juː wʊd faɪnd ðem ɪn tanktown ˈvɔːdəvɪl ækts, kliːnd ʌp, ɔː(ɑː) daʊn ɪn ðə tʃiːp bɜːˈlesk ˈhaʊzɪz, əz ˈdɜːti əz ðə lɔː əˈlaʊd ənd wʌns ɪn ə waɪl dʒəst ɪˈnʌf ˈdɜːtɪə(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː) ə reɪd ənd ə ˈnɔɪzi pəˈliːs kɔːt ˈtraɪəl, ənd ðen ˈbæk ɪn ðeə(ɑː) ʃəʊz əˈɡen, ˈɡrɪnɪŋ, sadisticallei ˈfɪlθi ənd əz ræŋk əz ðə smel əv steɪl swet.  
  
 You would find them in tanktown vaudeville acts, cleaned up, or down in the cheap burlesque houses, as dirty as the law allowed and once in a while just enough dirtier for a raid and a noisy police court trial, and then back in their shows again, grinning, sadistically filthy and as rank as the smell of stale sweat.  
  
 ðə ˈwɪmɪn həd ɡʊd leɡz ənd dɪˈspleɪd ðeə(ɑː) ɪnˈsaɪd kɜːvz mɔː(ɑː) ðæn wɪl ˈheɪz wʊd həv ˈlaɪkt. bʌt ðeə(ɑː) ˈfeɪsɪz wɜː(ɑː) əz ˈθredbeə(r) əz ə ˈbʊk kiːpə(ɑː)’ˈes ˈɒfɪs ˈkəʊt. blɒndz, bruːˈnets, lɑːdʒ cowlike aɪz wɪð ə ˈpesnt ˈdʌlnəs ɪn ðem. smɔːl ʃɑːp aɪz wɪð ˈɜːtʃɪn ɡriːd ɪn ðem. wʌn ɔː(ɑː) ˈtuː əv ðə ˈfeɪsɪz ˈɒbvɪəsli ˈvɪʃəs. wʌn ɔː(ɑː) ˈtuː əv ðem maɪt həv həd red heə(ɑː).  
  
 The women had good legs and displayed their inside curves more than Will Hays would have liked. But their faces were as threadbare as a bookkeeper’s office coat. Blondes, brunettes, large cowlike eyes with a peasant dullness in them. Small sharp eyes with urchin greed in them. One or two of the faces obviously vicious. One or two of them might have had red hair.  
  
 juː couldn’tiː tel frəm ðə ˈfəʊtəɡrɑːfs. ˈaɪ lʊkt ðem ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ˈkæʒʊəli, wɪðˈaʊt ˈɪntrəst ənd taɪd ðə teɪp əˈɡen.  
“ˈaɪ wouldn’tiː nəʊ ˈeni əv ðiːz,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “waɪ əm ˈaɪ ˈlʊkɪŋ ət ðem?”  
