---
title: Part3
date: 2024-10-25 08:01:57 +0200
categories: []
tags: []
---
8
I got down to Montemar Vista as the light began to fade, but there was still a fine sparkle on the water and the surf was breaking far out in long smooth curves. A group of pelicans was flying bomber formation just under the creaming lip of the waves.

 ə ˈləʊnli jɒt wɒz ˈteɪkɪŋ ɪn təˈwɔːd ðə jɒt ˈhɑːbə(r) ət beɪ ˈsɪti. bɪˈjɒnd ɪt ðə hjuːdʒ ˈemptɪnəs əv ðə pəˈsɪfɪk wɒz ˈpɜːpl̩-ɡreɪ.
Montemar ˈvɪstə wɒz ə fjuː ˈdʌzn̩ ˈhaʊzɪz əv ˈveərɪəs ˈsaɪzɪz ənd ʃeɪps ˈhæŋɪŋ baɪ ðeə(ɑː) tiːθ ənd ˈaɪbraʊz tuː ə spɜː(r) əv ˈmaʊntɪn ənd ˈlʊkɪŋ əz ɪf ə ɡʊd sniːz wʊd drɒp ðem daʊn əˈmʌŋ ðə bɒks ˈlʌntʃɪz ɒn ðə biːtʃ.

 A lonely yacht was taking in toward the yacht harbor at Bay City. Beyond it the huge emptiness of the Pacific was purple-gray.
Montemar Vista was a few dozen houses of various sizes and shapes hanging by their teeth and eyebrows to a spur of mountain and looking as if a good sneeze would drop them down among the box lunches on the beach.


əˈbʌv ðə biːtʃ ðə ˈhaɪweɪ ræn ˈʌndə(ɑː) ə waɪd ˈkɒŋkriːt ɑːtʃ wɪtʃ wɒz ɪn fækt ə pɪˈdestrɪən brɪdʒ. frəm ðə ˈɪnə(ɑː) end əv ðɪs ə flaɪt əv ˈkɒŋkriːt steps wɪð ə θɪk ˈɡælvənaɪzd ˈhændreɪl ɒn wʌn saɪd ræn streɪt əz ə ˈruːlə(r) ʌp ðə saɪd əv ðə ˈmaʊntɪn.


Above the beach the highway ran under a wide concrete arch which was in fact a pedestrian bridge. From the inner end of this a flight of concrete steps with a thick galvanized handrail on one side ran straight as a ruler up the side of the mountain.

 bɪˈjɒnd ðə ɑːtʃ ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk ˈkæfeɪ maɪ ˈklaɪənt həd ˈspəʊkən əv, wɒz braɪt ənd ˈtʃɪəfəl ɪnˈsaɪd, bʌt ðə ˈaɪən-ˈleɡɪd taɪl-tɒpt ˈteɪbl̩z ˌaʊtˈsaɪd ˈʌndə(ɑː) ðə straɪpt ˈɔːnɪŋ wɜː(ɑː) ˈempti seɪv fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈsɪŋɡl̩ dɑːk ˈwʊmən ɪn slæks huː sməʊkt ənd steəd ˈmuːdɪli ˈaʊt tuː siː, wɪð ə ˈbɒtl̩ əv bɪə(ɑː) ɪn frʌnt əv hɜː(ɑː). ə fɒks ˈteðə(r) wɒz ˈjuːzɪŋ wʌn əv ðə ˈaɪən tʃeəz fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈlæmpəʊst.

 Beyond the arch the sidewalk cafe my client had spoken of, was bright and cheerful inside, but the iron-legged tile-topped tables outside under the striped awning were empty save for a single dark woman in slacks who smoked and stared moodily out to sea, with a bottle of beer in front of her. A fox tether was using one of the iron chairs for a lamppost.

 ʃiː ˈtʃaɪdɪd ðə dɒɡ ˈæbsəntli əz ˈaɪ drəʊv pɑːst ənd ɡeɪv ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk ˈkæfeɪ maɪ ˈbɪznəs tuː ðə ɪkˈstent əv ˈjuːzɪŋ ɪts ˈpɑːkɪŋ speɪs.
ˈaɪ ˈwɔːkt ˈbæk θruː ðə ɑːtʃ ənd ˈstɑːtɪd ʌp ðə steps. ɪt wɒz ə naɪs wɔːk ɪf juː ˈlaɪkt ˈɡrʌntɪŋ. ðeə(ɑː) wɜː(ɑː) ˈtuː ˈhʌndrəd ənd ˈeɪti steps ʌp tuː Cabrillo striːt. ˈðeɪ wɜː(ɑː) ˈdrɪftɪd ˈəʊvə(ɑː) wɪð ˈwɪndbləʊn sænd ənd ðə ˈhændreɪl wɒz əz kəʊld ənd wet əz ə təʊd’ˈes ˈbeli.

 She chided the dog absently as I drove past and gave the sidewalk cafe my business to the extent of using its parking space.
I walked back through the arch and started up the steps. It was a nice walk if you liked grunting. There were two hundred and eighty steps up to Cabrillo Street. They were drifted over with windblown sand and the handrail was as cold and wet as a toad’s belly.


wen ˈaɪ riːtʃt ðə tɒp ðə ˈspɑːkl̩ həd ɡɒn frəm ðə ˈwɔːtə(ɑː) ənd ə ˈsiːɡʌl wɪð ə ˈbrəʊkən ˈtreɪlɪŋ leɡ wɒz ˈtwɪstɪŋ əˈɡenst ðə offsea briːz. ˈaɪ sæt daʊn ɒn ðə dæmp kəʊld tɒp step ənd ʃʊk ðə sænd ˈaʊt əv maɪ ʃuːz ənd ˈweɪtɪd fɔː(ɑː) maɪ pʌls tuː kʌm daʊn ˈɪntə ðə ləʊ ˈhʌndrədz.


When I reached the top the sparkle had gone from the water and a seagull with a broken trailing leg was twisting against the offsea breeze. I sat down on the damp cold top step and shook the sand out of my shoes and waited for my pulse to come down into the low hundreds.

 wen ˈaɪ wɒz ˈbriːðɪŋ mɔː(ɑː) ɔː(ɑː) les ˈnɔːməli əˈɡen ˈaɪ ʃʊk maɪ ʃɜːt luːs frəm maɪ ˈbæk ənd ˈwent əˈlɒŋ tuː ðə ˈlaɪtɪd ˈhaʊs wɪtʃ wɒz ðə ˈəʊnli wʌn wɪðˈɪn ˈjelɪŋ ˈdɪstəns əv ðə steps.
ɪt wɒz ə naɪs ˈlɪtl̩ ˈhaʊs wɪð ə sɔːlt-ˈtɑːnɪʃt ˈspaɪərəl əv ˈsteəkeɪs ˈɡəʊɪŋ ʌp tuː ðə frʌnt dɔː(ɑː) ənd ən ˌɪmɪˈteɪʃn̩ coachlamp fɔː(ɑː) ə porchlight. ðə ˈɡærɑːʒ wɒz ˌʌndəˈniːθ ənd tuː wʌn saɪd.

 When I was breathing more or less normally again I shook my shirt loose from my back and went along to the lighted house which was the only one within yelling distance of the steps.
It was a nice little house with a salt-tarnished spiral of staircase going up to the front door and an imitation coachlamp for a porchlight. The garage was underneath and to one side.

 ɪts dɔː(ɑː) wɒz ˈlɪftɪd ʌp ənd rəʊld ˈbæk ənd ðə laɪt əv ðə porchlamp ʃɒn əˈbliːkli ɒn ə hjuːdʒ blæk ˈbætlʃɪp əv ə kɑː(ɑː) wɪð ˈkrəʊmɪəm ˈtrɪmɪŋz, ə koɪˈəʊt teɪl taɪd tuː ðə wɪŋd ˈvɪktəri ɒn ðə ˈreɪdɪeɪtə(r) kæp ənd ɪnˈɡreɪvd ɪˈnɪʃl̩z weə(ɑː) ðə ˈembləm ʃʊd bi. ðə kɑː(ɑː) həd ə raɪt-hænd draɪv ənd lʊkt əz ɪf həd kɒst mɔː(ɑː) ðæn ðə ˈhaʊs.

 Its door was lifted up and rolled back and the light of the porchlamp shone obliquely on a huge black battleship of a car with chromium trimmings, a coyote tail tied to the Winged Victory on the radiator cap and engraved initials where the emblem should be. The car had a right-hand drive and looked as if had cost more than the house.


ˈaɪ ˈwent ʌp ðə ˈspaɪərəl steps, lʊkt fɔː(ɑː) ə bel, ənd ˈjuːzd ə ˈnɒkə(r) ɪn ðə ʃeɪp əv ə ˈtaɪɡə(r)’ˈes hed. ɪts ˈklætə(ɑː) wɒz ˈswɒləʊd ɪn ðə ˈɜːli ˈiːvn̩ɪŋ fɒɡ. ˈaɪ hɜːd nəʊ steps ɪn ðə ˈhaʊs. maɪ dæmp ʃɜːt felt ˈlaɪk ən ˈaɪspæk ɒn maɪ ˈbæk. ðə dɔː(ɑː) ˈəʊpənd ˈsaɪləntli, ənd ˈaɪ wɒz ˈlʊkɪŋ ət ə tɔːl blɒnd mæn ɪn ə waɪt ˈflænl̩ suːt wɪð ə ˈvaɪələt ˈsætɪn skɑːf əˈraʊnd hɪz nek.


I went up the spiral steps, looked for a bell, and used a knocker in the shape of a tiger’s head. Its clatter was swallowed in the early evening fog. I heard no steps in the house. My damp shirt felt like an icepack on my back. The door opened silently, and I was looking at a tall blond man in a white flannel suit with a violet satin scarf around his neck.


ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈkɔːnflaʊə(ɑː) ɪn ðə ləˈpel əv hɪz waɪt ˈkəʊt ənd hɪz peɪl bluː aɪz lʊkt ˈfeɪdɪd ˈaʊt baɪ kəmˈpærɪsn̩. ðə ˈvaɪələt skɑːf wɒz luːs ɪˈnʌf tuː ʃəʊ ðæt hiː wɔː(ɑː) nəʊ taɪ ənd ðæt hiː həd ə θɪk, sɒft braʊn nek, ˈlaɪk ðə nek əv ə strɒŋ ˈwʊmən. hɪz ˈfiːtʃəz wɜː(ɑː) ə ˈlɪtl̩ ɒn ðə ˈhevi saɪd, bʌt ˈhænsəm, hiː həd ən ɪntʃ mɔː(ɑː) əv haɪt ðæn ˈaɪ həd, wɪtʃ ˈmeɪd hɪm sɪks fiːt wʌn.


There was a cornflower in the lapel of his white coat and his pale blue eyes looked faded out by comparison. The violet scarf was loose enough to show that he wore no tie and that he had a thick, soft brown neck, like the neck of a strong woman. His features were a little on the heavy side, but handsome, he had an inch more of height than I had, which made him six feet one.

 hɪz blɒnd heə(ɑː) wɒz əˈreɪndʒd, baɪ ɑːt ɔː(ɑː) ˈneɪtʃə(ɑː), ɪn θriː prɪˈsaɪs blɒnd ˈledʒɪz wɪtʃ rɪˈmaɪndɪd miː əv steps, ˈsəʊ ðæt ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈlaɪk ðem. ˈaɪ wouldn’tiː həv ˈlaɪkt ðem ˈeniweɪ. əˈpɑːt frəm ɔːl ðɪs hiː həd ðə ˈdʒenr̩əl əˈpɪərəns əv ə læd huː wʊd weə(ɑː) ə waɪt ˈflænl̩ suːt wɪð ə ˈvaɪələt skɑːf əˈraʊnd hɪz nek ənd ə ˈkɔːnflaʊə(ɑː) ɪn hɪz ləˈpel.

 His blond hair was arranged, by art or nature, in three precise blond ledges which reminded me of steps, so that I didn’t like them. I wouldn’t have liked them anyway. Apart from all this he had the general appearance of a lad who would wear a white flannel suit with a violet scarf around his neck and a cornflower in his lapel.


hiː klɪəd hɪz θrəʊt ˈlaɪtli ənd lʊkt pɑːst maɪ ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː) ət ðə ˈdɑːkənɪŋ siː. hɪz kuːl ˌsuːpəˈsɪlɪəs vɔɪs ˈsed: “jes?”
“ˈsevn̩ əʊ’ˈklɒk,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ɒn ðə dɒt.”
“əʊ jes. let miː ˈsiː, jɔː(ɑː) ˈneɪm ɪz—“ hiː pɔːzd, ənd fraʊnd ɪn ðə ˈefət əv ˈmeməri. ðə ɪˈfekt wɒz əz ˈfəʊni əz ðə ˈpedɪɡriː əv ə ˈjuːzd kɑː(ɑː). ˈaɪ let hɪm ˈwɜːk ət ɪt fɔː(ɑː) ə maɪˈnjuːt, ðen ˈaɪ ˈsed:
“ˈfɪlɪp ˈmɑːˌləʊ.


He cleared his throat lightly and looked past my shoulder at the darkening sea. His cool supercilious voice said: “Yes?”
“Seven o’clock,” I said. “On the dot.”
“Oh yes. Let me see, your name is—“ he paused, and frowned in the effort of memory. The effect was as phony as the pedigree of a used car. I let him work at it for a minute, then I said:
“Philip Marlowe.

 ðə seɪm əz ɪt wɒz ðɪs ˌɑːftəˈnuːn.”
hiː ɡeɪv miː ə kwɪk ˈdɑːtɪŋ fraʊn, əz ɪf pəˈhæps ˈsʌmθɪŋ ˈɔːt tuː bi dʌn əˈbaʊt ɪt. ðen hiː stept ˈbæk ənd ˈsed ˈkəʊldli:
“ɑː jes. kwaɪt ˈsəʊ. kʌm ɪn, ˈmɑːˌləʊ. maɪ ˈhaʊs ˌbɔɪ ɪz əˈweɪ ðɪs ˈiːvn̩ɪŋ.”
hiː ˈəʊpənd ðə dɔː(ɑː) waɪd wɪð ə ˈfɪŋɡətɪp, əz ðəʊ ˈəʊpənɪŋ ðə dɔː(ɑː) hɪmˈself ˈdɜːtɪd hɪm ə ˈlɪtl̩.
ˈaɪ ˈwent ɪn pɑːst hɪm ənd smeld pəˈfjuːm. hiː kləʊzd ðə dɔː(ɑː).

 The same as it was this afternoon.”
He gave me a quick darting frown, as if perhaps something ought to be done about it. Then he stepped back and said coldly:
“Ah yes. Quite so. Come in, Marlowe. My house boy is away this evening.”
He opened the door wide with a fingertip, as though opening the door himself dirtied him a little.
I went in past him and smelled perfume. He closed the door.

 ðə ɪnˈtrɑːns ˈpʊt ˈəs ɒn ə ləʊ ˈbælkəni wɪð ə ˈmetl̩ ˈreɪlɪŋ ðæt ræn əˈraʊnd θriː saɪdz əv ə bɪɡ ˈstjuːdɪəʊ ˈlɪvɪŋ ruːm. ðə ˈfɔːθ saɪd kənˈteɪnd ə bɪɡ ˈfaɪəpleɪs ənd ˈtuː dɔːz. ə ˈfaɪə(ɑː) wɒz ˈkrækl̩ɪŋ ɪn ðə ˈfaɪəpleɪs. ðə ˈbælkəni wɒz laɪnd wɪð ˈbʊkʃelf ənd ðeə(ɑː) wɜː(ɑː) ˈpiːsɪz əv ɡleɪzd mɪˈtælɪk ˈlʊkɪŋ bɪts əv ˈskʌlptʃə(r) ɒn ˈpedɪstl̩z.
wiː ˈwent daʊn θriː steps tuː ðə meɪn pɑːt əv ðə ˈlɪvɪŋ ruːm.

 The entrance put us on a low balcony with a metal railing that ran around three sides of a big studio living room. The fourth side contained a big fireplace and two doors. A fire was crackling in the fireplace. The balcony was lined with bookshelves and there were pieces of glazed metallic looking bits of sculpture on pedestals.
We went down three steps to the main part of the living room.

 ðə ˈkɑːpɪt ˈɔːlməʊst ˈtɪkl̩d maɪ ˈæŋkl̩z. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə kənˈsɜːt ɡrænd pɪˈænəʊ, kləʊzd daʊn. ɒn wʌn ˈkɔːnə(ɑː) əv ɪt stʊd ə tɔːl ˈsɪlvə(ɑː) vɑːz ɒn ə strɪp əv piːtʃ-ˈkʌlərd ˈvelvɪt, ənd ə ˈsɪŋɡl̩ ˈjeləʊ rəʊz ɪn ðə vɑːz. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ˈplenti əv naɪs sɒft ˈfɜːnɪtʃə(ɑː), ə ˈɡreɪt ˈmeni flɔː(ɑː) ˈkʊʃn̩z, sʌm wɪð ˈɡəʊldən ˈtæsl̩z ənd sʌm dʒəst ˈneɪkɪd. ɪt wɒz ə naɪs ruːm, ɪf juː didn’tiː ˈɡet rʌf.

 The carpet almost tickled my ankles. There was a concert grand piano, closed down. On one corner of it stood a tall silver vase on a strip of peach-colored velvet, and a single yellow rose in the vase. There was plenty of nice soft furniture, a great many floor cushions, some with golden tassels and some just naked. It was a nice room, if you didn’t get rough.

 ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə waɪd ˈdæməsk ˈkʌvəd dɪˈvæn ɪn ə ˈʃædəʊɪ ˈkɔːnə(ɑː), ˈlaɪk ə ˈkɑːstɪŋ kaʊtʃ. ɪt wɒz ðə kaɪnd əv ruːm weə(ɑː) ˈpiːpl̩ sɪt wɪð ðeə(ɑː) fiːt ɪn ðeə(ɑː) læps ənd sɪp ˈæbsɪnθ θruː lʌmps əv ˈʃʊɡə(r) ənd ˈtɔːk wɪð haɪ əˈfektɪd ˈvɔɪsɪz ənd ˈsʌmtaɪmz dʒəst skwiːk. ɪt wɒz ə ruːm weə(ɑː) ˈeniθɪŋ kʊd ˈhæpən ɪkˈsept ˈwɜːk.
ˈmɪstə(ɑː).

 There was a wide damask covered divan in a shadowy corner, like a casting couch. It was the kind of room where people sit with their feet in their laps and sip absinthe through lumps of sugar and talk with high affected voices and sometimes just squeak. It was a room where anything could happen except work.
Mr.

 ˈlɪndzi ˈmeriət əˈreɪndʒd hɪmˈself ɪn ðə kɜːv əv ðə ɡrænd pɪˈænəʊ, liːnd ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː snɪf ət ðə ˈjeləʊ rəʊz, ðen ˈəʊpənd ə frentʃ ɪˈnæml̩ ˌsɪɡəˈret keɪs ənd lɪt ə ˈlɒŋ braʊn ˌsɪɡəˈret wɪð ə ɡəʊld ˈtɪp. ˈaɪ sæt daʊn ɒn ə pɪŋk tʃeə(ɑː) ənd həʊpt ˈaɪ wouldn’tiː liːv ə mɑːk ɒn ɪt. ˈaɪ lɪt ə ˈkæməl, bluː sməʊk θruː maɪ nəʊz ənd lʊkt ət ə piːs əv ˈʃaɪni ˈmetl̩ ɒn ə stænd.

 Lindsay Marriott arranged himself in the curve of the grand piano, leaned over to sniff at the yellow rose, then opened a French enamel cigarette case and lit a long brown cigarette with a gold tip. I sat down on a pink chair and hoped I wouldn’t leave a mark on it. I lit a Camel, blew smoke through my nose and looked at a piece of shiny metal on a stand.

 ɪt ʃəʊd ə fʊl, smuːð kɜːv wɪð ə ˈʃæləʊ fəʊld ɪn ɪt ənd ˈtuː prəˈtjuːbərənsɪz ɒn ðə kɜːv. ˈaɪ steəd ət ɪt, ˈmeriət ˈsɔː miː ˈsteərɪŋ ət ɪt.
“ən ˈɪntrəstɪŋ bɪt,” hiː ˈsed ˈneɡlɪdʒəntli. “ˈaɪ pɪkt ɪt ʌp dʒəst ðə ˈʌðə(ɑː) deɪ. ˈɑːstə ˈdaɪəl’ˈes ˈspɪrɪt əv dɔːn.”
“ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt ɪt wɒz Klopstein’ˈes ˈtuː wɔːts ɒn ə ˈfæni,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.
ˈmɪstə(ɑː). ˈlɪndzi ˈmeriət’ˈes feɪs lʊkt əz ɪf hiː həd ˈswɒləʊd ə biː.

 It showed a full, smooth curve with a shallow fold in it and two protuberances on the curve. I stared at it, Marriott saw me staring at it.
“An interesting bit,” he said negligently. “I picked it up just the other day. Asta Dial’s Spirit of Dawn.”
“I thought it was Klopstein’s Two Warts on a Fanny,” I said.
Mr. Lindsay Marriott’s face looked as if he had swallowed a bee.

 hiː smuːðd ɪt ˈaʊt wɪð ən ˈefət.
“juː həv ə ˈsʌmwɒt pɪˈkjuːlɪə(r) sens əv ˈhjuːmə(ɑː),” hiː ˈsed.
“nɒt pɪˈkjuːlɪə(r),” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “dʒəst ˌʌnɪnˈhɪbɪtɪd.”
“jes,” hiː ˈsed ˈveri ˈkəʊldli. “jes—əv kɔːs. ˈaɪ’ˈviː nəʊ daʊt. . .wel, ˈwɒt ˈaɪ wɪʃt tuː ˈsiː juː əˈbaʊt ɪz, əz ə ˈmætə(ɑː) əv fækt, ə ˈveri ˈslaɪt ˈmætə(ɑː) ɪnˈdiːd. ˈhɑːdli wɜːθ ˈbrɪŋɪŋ juː daʊn hɪə(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː). ˈaɪ əm ˈmiːtɪŋ ə ˈkʌpl̩ əv men təˈnaɪt ənd ˈpeɪɪŋ ðem sʌm ˈmʌni.

 He smoothed it out with an effort.
“You have a somewhat peculiar sense of humor,” he said.
“Not peculiar,” I said. “Just uninhibited.”
“Yes,” he said very coldly. “Yes—of course. I’ve no doubt. . .Well, what I wished to see you about is, as a matter of fact, a very slight matter indeed. Hardly worth bringing you down here for. I am meeting a couple of men tonight and paying them some money.

 ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt ˈaɪ maɪt əz wel həv ˈsʌmwʌn wɪð miː. juː ˈkæri ə ɡʌn?”
“ət ˈtaɪmz. jes,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. ˈaɪ lʊkt ət ðə ˈdɪmpl̩ ɪn hɪz brɔːd, ˈfleʃi tʃɪn. juː kʊd həv lɒst ə ˈmɑːbl̩ ɪn ɪt.
“ˈaɪ ʂɑn’tiː wɒnt juː tuː ˈkæri ðæt. ˈnʌθɪŋ əv ðæt sɔːt ət ɔːl. ðɪs ɪz ə ˈpjʊəli ˈbɪznəs trænˈzækʃn̩.”
“ˈaɪ ˈhɑːdli ˈevə(ɑː) ʃuːt ˈenibɒdi,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ə ˈmætə(ɑː) əv ˈblækmeɪl?”
hiː fraʊnd. “ˈsɜːtnli nɒt.

 I thought I might as well have someone with me. You carry a gun?”
“At times. Yes,” I said. I looked at the dimple in his broad, fleshy chin. You could have lost a marble in it.
“I shan’t want you to carry that. Nothing of that sort at all. This is a purely business transaction.”
“I hardly ever shoot anybody,” I said. “A matter of blackmail?”
He frowned. “Certainly not.

 ˈaɪ’em nɒt ɪn ðə ˈhæbɪt əv ˈɡɪvɪŋ ˈpiːpl̩ ɡraʊndz fɔː(ɑː) ˈblækmeɪl.”
“ɪt ˈhæpənz tuː ðə ˈnaɪsɪst ˈpiːpl̩. ˈaɪ maɪt ˈseɪ pəˈtɪkjʊləli tuː ðə ˈnaɪsɪst ˈpiːpl̩.”
hiː weɪvd hɪz ˌsɪɡəˈret. hɪz ˌækwəməˈriːn aɪz həd ə ˈfeɪntli ˈθɔːtfəl ɪkˈspreʃn̩, bʌt hɪz lɪps smaɪld. ðə kaɪnd əv smaɪl ðæt ɡəʊz wɪð ə sɪlk nuːs.
hiː bluː sʌm mɔː(ɑː) sməʊk ənd ˈtɪltɪd hɪz hed ˈbæk. ðɪs əkˈsentʃueɪtɪd ðə sɒft fɜːm laɪnz əv hɪz θrəʊt.

 I’m not in the habit of giving people grounds for blackmail.”
“It happens to the nicest people. I might say particularly to the nicest people.”
He waved his cigarette. His aquamarine eyes had a faintly thoughtful expression, but his lips smiled. The kind of smile that goes with a silk noose.
He blew some more smoke and tilted his head back. This accentuated the soft firm lines of his throat.

 hɪz aɪz keɪm daʊn ˈsləʊli ənd ˈstʌdɪd miː.
“ˈaɪ’em ˈmiːtɪŋ ðiːz men—məʊst ˈprɒbəbli—ɪn ə ˈrɑːðə(ɑː) ˈləʊnli ˈpleɪs. ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː nəʊ weə(ɑː) ˈdʒet. ˈaɪ ɪkˈspekt ə kɔːl ˈɡɪvɪŋ miː ðə pəˈtɪkjʊləz. ˈaɪ həv tuː bi ˈredi tuː liːv ət wʌns. ɪt wʌn’tiː bi ˈveri ˈfɑː(ɑː) əˈweɪ frəm hɪə(ɑː). ðæt’ˈes ðə ˌʌndəˈstændɪŋ.”
“juː’ˈviː biːn ˈmeɪkɪŋ ðɪs diːl sʌm ˈtaɪm?”
“θriː ɔː(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː) deɪz, əz ə ˈmætə(ɑː) əv fækt.

 His eyes came down slowly and studied me.
“I’m meeting these men—most probably—in a rather lonely place. I don’t know where yet. I expect a call giving me the particulars. I have to be ready to leave at once. It won’t be very far away from here. That’s the understanding.”
“You’ve been making this deal some time?”
“Three or four days, as a matter of fact.

”
“juː left jɔː(ɑː) ˈbɒdɪɡɑːd ˈprɒbləm ʌnˈtɪl ˈprɪti leɪt.”
hiː ˈθɔːt ðæt ˈəʊvə(ɑː). hiː snɪkt sʌm dɑːk æʃ frəm hɪz ˌsɪɡəˈret. “ðæt’ˈes truː. ˈaɪ həd sʌm ˈdɪfɪkəlti ˈmeɪkɪŋ maɪ maɪnd ʌp. ɪt wʊd bi ˈbetə(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː) miː tuː ɡəʊ əˈləʊn, ɔːlˈðəʊ ˈnʌθɪŋ hæz biːn ˈsed ˈdefɪnətli əˈbaʊt maɪ ˈhævɪŋ ˈsʌmwʌn wɪð miː. ɒn ðə ˈʌðə(ɑː) hænd ˈaɪ’em nɒt ˈmʌtʃ əv ə ˈhɪərəʊ.”
“ˈðeɪ nəʊ juː baɪ saɪt, əv kɔːs?”
“ˈaɪ—ˈaɪ’em nɒt ʃʊə(ɑː).

”
“You left your bodyguard problem until pretty late.”
He thought that over. He snicked some dark ash from his cigarette. “That’s true. I had some difficulty making my mind up. It would be better for me to go alone, although nothing has been said definitely about my having someone with me. On the other hand I’m not much of a hero.”
“They know you by sight, of course?”
“I—I’m not sure.

 ˈaɪ ʃæl bi ˈkærɪɪŋ ə lɑːdʒ əˈmaʊnt əv ˈmʌni ənd ɪt ɪz nɒt maɪ ˈmʌni. ˈaɪ’em ˈæktɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈfrend. ˈaɪ shouldn’tiː fiːl ˈdʒʌstɪfaɪd ɪn ˈletɪŋ ɪt ˈaʊt əv maɪ pəˈzeʃn̩, əv kɔːs.”
ˈaɪ snʌbd ˈaʊt maɪ ˌsɪɡəˈret ənd liːnd ˈbæk ɪn ðə pɪŋk tʃeə(ɑː) ənd ˈtwɪdl̩d maɪ ˈθʌmz. “ˈhaʊ ˈmʌtʃ ˈmʌni—ənd ˈwɒt fɔː(ɑː)?”
“wel, ˈrɪəli—“ ɪt wɒz ə ˈfeəli naɪs smaɪl naʊ, bʌt ˈaɪ stɪl didn’tiː ˈlaɪk ɪt. “ˈaɪ kæn’tiː ɡəʊ ˈɪntə ðæt.

 I shall be carrying a large amount of money and it is not my money. I’m acting for a friend. I shouldn’t feel justified in letting it out of my possession, of course.”
I snubbed out my cigarette and leaned back in the pink chair and twiddled my thumbs. “How much money—and what for?”
“Well, really—“ it was a fairly nice smile now, but I still didn’t like it. “I can’t go into that.

”
“juː dʒəst wɒnt miː tuː ɡəʊ əˈlɒŋ ənd həʊld jɔː(ɑː) hæt?”
hɪz hænd dʒɜːkt əˈɡen ənd sʌm æʃ fel ɒf ɒn hɪz waɪt kʌf. hiː ʃʊk ɪt ɒf ənd steəd daʊn ət ðə ˈpleɪs weə(ɑː) ɪt həd biːn.
“ˈaɪ’em əˈfreɪd ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː ˈlaɪk jɔː(ɑː) ˈmænə(ɑː),” hiː ˈsed, ˈjuːzɪŋ ðə edʒ əv hɪz vɔɪs.
“ˈaɪ’ˈviː həd kəmˈpleɪnts əˈbaʊt ɪt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “bʌt ˈnʌθɪŋ ˈsiːmz tuː duː ˈeni ɡʊd. let’ˈes lʊk ət ðɪs dʒɒb ə ˈlɪtl̩.

”
“You just want me to go along and hold your hat?”
His hand jerked again and some ash fell off on his white cuff. He shook it off and stared down at the place where it had been.
“I’m afraid I don’t like your manner,” he said, using the edge of his voice.
“I’ve had complaints about it,” I said. “But nothing seems to do any good. Let’s look at this job a little.

 juː wɒnt ə ˈbɒdɪɡɑːd, bʌt hiː kæn’tiː weə(ɑː) ə ɡʌn. juː wɒnt ə ˈhelpə(ɑː), bʌt hiː isn’tiː səˈpəʊzd tuː nəʊ ˈwɒt hiː’ˈes səˈpəʊzd tuː duː. juː wɒnt miː tuː rɪsk maɪ nek wɪðˈaʊt ˈnəʊɪŋ waɪ ɔː(ɑː) ˈwɒt fɔː(ɑː) ɔː(ɑː) ˈwɒt ðə rɪsk ɪz. ˈwɒt ə(ɑː) juː ˈɒfərɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ɔːl ðɪs?”
“ˈaɪ hadn’tiː ˈrɪəli ˈɡɒt əˈraʊnd tuː ˈθɪŋkɪŋ əˈbaʊt ɪt.” hɪz ˈtʃiːkbəʊnz wɜː(ɑː) ˈdʌski red.
“duː juː səˈpəʊz juː kʊd ˈɡet əˈraʊnd tuː ˈθɪŋkɪŋ əˈbaʊt ɪt?

 You want a bodyguard, but he can’t wear a gun. You want a helper, but he isn’t supposed to know what he’s supposed to do. You want me to risk my neck without knowing why or what for or what the risk is. What are you offering for all this?”
“I hadn’t really got around to thinking about it.” His cheekbones were dusky red.
“Do you suppose you could get around to thinking about it?

”
hiː liːnd ˈfɔːwəd ˈɡreɪsfəli ənd smaɪld bɪˈtwiːn hɪz tiːθ. “ˈhaʊ wʊd juː ˈlaɪk ə swɪft pʌntʃ ɒn ðə nəʊz?”
ˈaɪ ɡrɪnd ənd stʊd ʌp ənd ˈpʊt maɪ hæt ɒn. ˈaɪ ˈstɑːtɪd əˈkrɒs ðə ˈkɑːpɪt təˈwɔːdz ðə frʌnt dɔː(ɑː), bʌt nɒt ˈveri fɑːst.
hɪz vɔɪs snæpt ət maɪ ˈbæk. “ˈaɪ’em ˈɒfərɪŋ juː ə ˈhʌndrəd ˈdɒləz fɔː(ɑː) ə fjuː ˈaʊəz əv jɔː(ɑː) ˈtaɪm. ɪf ðæt isn’tiː ɪˈnʌf, ˈseɪ ˈsəʊ. ðeə(ɑː)’ˈes nəʊ rɪsk.

”
He leaned forward gracefully and smiled between his teeth. “How would you like a swift punch on the nose?”
I grinned and stood up and put my hat on. I started across the carpet towards the front door, but not very fast.
His voice snapped at my back. “I’m offering you a hundred dollars for a few hours of your time. If that isn’t enough, say so. There’s no risk.

 sʌm ˈdʒuːəlz wɜː(ɑː) ˈteɪkən frəm ə ˈfrend əv maɪn ɪn ə ˈhəʊldʌp—ənd ˈaɪ’em ˈbaɪɪŋ ðem ˈbæk. sɪt daʊn ənd dɒn’tiː bi ˈsəʊ ˈtʌtʃi.”
ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈbæk tuː ðə pɪŋk tʃeə(ɑː) ənd sæt daʊn əˈɡen.
“ɔːl raɪt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “let’ˈes hɪə(ɑː) əˈbaʊt ɪt.”
wiː steəd ət iːtʃ ˈʌðə(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː) ɔːl əv ten sɪˈkɒndz. “həv juː ˈevə(ɑː) hɜːd əv fei tˈsuːi dʒeɪd?” hiː ˈɑːskt ˈsləʊli, ənd lɪt əˈnʌðə(ɑː) əv hɪz dɑːk ˌsɪɡəˈrets.
“nəʊ.

 Some jewels were taken from a friend of mine in a holdup—and I’m buying them back. Sit down and don’t be so touchy.”
I went back to the pink chair and sat down again.
“All right,” I said. “Let’s hear about it.”
We stared at each other for all of ten seconds. “Have you ever heard of Fei Tsui jade?” he asked slowly, and lit another of his dark cigarettes.
“No.

”
“ɪt’ˈes ðə ˈəʊnli ˈrɪəli ˈvæljʊəbl̩ kaɪnd. ˈʌðə(ɑː) kaɪndz ə(ɑː) ˈvæljʊəbl̩ tuː sʌm ɪkˈstent fɔː(ɑː) ðə məˈtɪərɪəl, bʌt ˈtʃiːfli fɔː(ɑː) ðə ˈwɜːkmənʃɪp ɒn ðem. fei tˈsuːi ɪz ˈvæljʊəbl̩ ɪn ɪtˈself. ɔːl nəʊn dɪˈpɒzɪts wɜː(ɑː) ɪɡˈzɔːstɪd ˈhʌndrədz əv ˈjiəz əˈɡəʊ. ə ˈfrend əv maɪn əʊnz ə ˈnekləs əv ˈsɪksti biːdz əv əˈbaʊt sɪks ˈkærəts iːtʃ, ˈɪntrɪkətli kɑːvd. wɜːθ ˈeɪti ɔː(ɑː) ˈnaɪnti ˈθaʊzn̩d ˈdɒləz.

”
“It’s the only really valuable kind. Other kinds are valuable to some extent for the material, but chiefly for the workmanship on them. Fei Tsui is valuable in itself. All known deposits were exhausted hundreds of years ago. A friend of mine owns a necklace of sixty beads of about six carats each, intricately carved. Worth eighty or ninety thousand dollars.

 ðə tʃaɪˈniːz ˈɡʌvənmənt hæz ə ˈveri ˈslaɪtli ˈlɑːdʒə(r) wʌn ˈvæljuːd ət ə ˈhʌndrəd ənd ˈtwenti-faɪv ˈθaʊzn̩d. maɪ ˈfrend’ˈes ˈnekləs wɒz ˈteɪkən ɪn ə ˈhəʊldʌp ə fjuː naɪts əˈɡəʊ. ˈaɪ wɒz prɪˈzent, bʌt kwaɪt ˈhelpləs. ˈaɪ həd ˈdrɪvn̩ maɪ ˈfrend tuː ən ˈiːvn̩ɪŋ ˈpɑːti ənd ˈleɪtə(ɑː) tuː ðə Trocadero ənd wiː wɜː(ɑː) ɒn ˈaʊə(ɑː) ˈweɪ ˈbæk tuː hɜː(ɑː) həʊm frəm ðeə(ɑː). ə kɑː(ɑː) brʌʃt ðə left frʌnt ˈfendə(ɑː) ənd stɒpt, əz ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt, tuː əˈpɒlədʒaɪz.

 The Chinese government has a very slightly larger one valued at a hundred and twenty-five thousand. My friend’s necklace was taken in a holdup a few nights ago. I was present, but quite helpless. I had driven my friend to an evening party and later to the Trocadero and we were on our way back to her home from there. A car brushed the left front fender and stopped, as I thought, to apologize.

 ɪnˈsted əv ðæt ɪt wɒz ə ˈveri kwɪk ənd ˈveri niːt ˈhəʊldʌp. ˈaɪðə(ɑː) θriː ɔː(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː) men, ˈaɪ ˈrɪəli ˈsɔː ˈəʊnli ˈtuː, bʌt ˈaɪ’em ʃʊə(ɑː) əˈnʌðə(ɑː) steɪd ɪn ðə kɑː(ɑː) bɪˈhaɪnd ðə ˈwiːl̩, ənd ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt ˈaɪ ˈsɔː ə ɡlɪmps əv stɪl ə ˈfɔːθ ət ðə rɪə(ɑː) ˈwɪndəʊ. maɪ ˈfrend wɒz ˈweərɪŋ ðə dʒeɪd ˈnekləs. ˈðeɪ tʊk ðæt ənd ˈtuː rɪŋz ənd ə ˈbreɪslɪt.

 Instead of that it was a very quick and very neat holdup. Either three or four men, I really saw only two, but I’m sure another stayed in the car behind the wheel, and I thought I saw a glimpse of still a fourth at the rear window. My friend was wearing the jade necklace. They took that and two rings and a bracelet.

 ðə wʌn huː siːmd tuː bi ðə ˈliːdə(r) lʊkt ðə ˈθɪŋz ˈəʊvə(ɑː) wɪðˈaʊt ˈeni əˈpærənt ˈhʌri ˈʌndə(ɑː) ə smɔːl ˈflæʃlaɪt. ðen hiː ˈhændɪd wʌn əv ðə rɪŋz ˈbæk ənd ˈsed ðæt wʊd ɡɪv ˈəs ən aɪˈdɪə ˈwɒt kaɪnd əv ˈpiːpl̩ wiː wɜː(ɑː) ˈdiːlɪŋ wɪð ənd tuː weɪt fɔː(ɑː) ə fəʊn kɔːl bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) rɪˈpɔːtɪŋ tuː ðə pəˈliːs ɔː(ɑː) ðə ɪnˈʃʊərəns ˈkʌmpəni. ˈsəʊ wiː əˈbeɪd ðeə(ɑː) ɪnˈstrʌkʃn̩z.

 The one who seemed to be the leader looked the things over without any apparent hurry under a small flashlight. Then he handed one of the rings back and said that would give us an idea what kind of people we were dealing with and to wait for a phone call before reporting to the police or the insurance company. So we obeyed their instructions.

 ðeə(ɑː)’ˈes ˈplenti əv ðæt sɔːt əv ˈθɪŋ ˈɡəʊɪŋ ɒn, əv kɔːs. juː kiːp ðə əˈfeə(ɑː) tuː jɔːˈself ənd peɪ ˈrænsəm, ɔː(ɑː) juː ˈnevə(ɑː) ˈsiː jɔː(ɑː) ˈdʒuːəlz əˈɡen. ɪf ˈðeɪ’riː ˈfʊli ɪnˈʃʊəd, pəˈhæps juː dɒn’tiː maɪnd, bʌt ɪf ˈðeɪ ˈhæpən tuː bi reə(ɑː) ˈpiːsɪz, juː wʊd ˈrɑːðə(ɑː) peɪ ˈrænsəm.”
ˈaɪ ˈnɒdɪd. “ənd ðɪs dʒeɪd ˈnekləs ɪz ˈsʌmθɪŋ ðæt kæn’tiː bi pɪkt ʌp ˈevri deɪ.

 There’s plenty of that sort of thing going on, of course. You keep the affair to yourself and pay ransom, or you never see your jewels again. If they’re fully insured, perhaps you don’t mind, but if they happen to be rare pieces, you would rather pay ransom.”
I nodded. “And this jade necklace is something that can’t be picked up every day.

”
hiː slɪd ə ˈfɪŋɡə(ɑː) əˈlɒŋ ðə ˈpɒlɪʃt ˈsɜːfɪs əv ðə pɪˈænəʊ wɪð ə ˈdriːmi ɪkˈspreʃn̩, əz ɪf ˈtʌtʃɪŋ smuːð ˈθɪŋz pliːzd hɪm.
“ˈveri ˈmʌtʃ ˈsəʊ. ɪt’ˈes ˌɪrɪˈpleɪsəbl̩. ʃiː shouldn’tiː həv wɔːn ɪt ˈaʊt—ˈevə(ɑː). bʌt ʃiː’ˈes ə ˈrekləs sɔːt əv ˈwʊmən. ðə ˈʌðə(ɑː) ˈθɪŋz wɜː(ɑː) ɡʊd bʌt ˈɔːdɪnri.”
“ˈə-hʌ. ˈhaʊ ˈmʌtʃ ə(ɑː) juː ˈpeɪɪŋ?”
“eɪt ˈθaʊzn̩d ˈdɒləz. ɪt’ˈes dɜːt tʃiːp.

”
He slid a finger along the polished surface of the piano with a dreamy expression, as if touching smooth things pleased him.
“Very much so. It’s irreplaceable. She shouldn’t have worn it out—ever. But she’s a reckless sort of woman. The other things were good but ordinary.”
“Uh-huh. How much are you paying?”
“Eight thousand dollars. It’s dirt cheap.

 bʌt ɪf maɪ ˈfrend couldn’tiː ˈɡet əˈnʌðə(ɑː) ˈlaɪk ɪt, ðiːz θʌɡz couldn’tiː ˈveri ˈiːzəli dɪˈspəʊz əv ɪt ˈaɪðə(ɑː). ɪt’ˈes ˈprɒbəbli nəʊn tuː ˈevri wʌn ɪn ðə treɪd, ɔːl ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ðə ˈkʌntri.”
“ðɪs ˈfrend əv jɔːz—dʌz ʃiː həv ə ˈneɪm?”
“ˈaɪ’diː prɪˈfɜː(r) nɒt tuː ˈmenʃn̩ ɪt ət ðə ˈməʊmənt.”
“ˈwɒt ə(ɑː) ðə əˈreɪndʒmənts?”
hiː lʊkt ət miː əˈlɒŋ hɪz peɪl aɪz. ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt hiː siːmd ə bɪt skeəd, bʌt ˈaɪ didn’tiː nəʊ hɪm ˈveri wel.

 But if my friend couldn’t get another like it, these thugs couldn’t very easily dispose of it either. It’s probably known to every one in the trade, all over the country.”
“This friend of yours—does she have a name?”
“I’d prefer not to mention it at the moment.”
“What are the arrangements?”
He looked at me along his pale eyes. I thought he seemed a bit scared, but I didn’t know him very well.

 ˈmeɪbiː ɪt wɒz ə ˈhæŋəʊvə(ɑː). ðə hænd ðæt held ðə dɑːk ˌsɪɡəˈret couldn’tiː kiːp stɪl.
“wiː həv biːn nɪˈɡəʊʃɪeɪtɪŋ baɪ ˈtelɪfəʊn fɔː(ɑː) ˈsevrəl deɪz—θruː miː. ˈevrɪθɪŋ ɪz ˈsetl̩d ɪkˈsept ðə ˈtaɪm ənd ˈpleɪs əv ˈmiːtɪŋ. ɪt ɪz tuː bi ˈsʌmtaɪm təˈnaɪt. ˈaɪ ʃæl ˈprezntli bi ˈɡetɪŋ ə kɔːl tuː tel miː əv ðæt. ɪt wɪl nɒt bi ˈveri ˈfɑː(ɑː) əˈweɪ, ˈðeɪ ˈseɪ, ənd ˈaɪ mʌst bi prɪˈpeəd tuː liːv ət wʌns.

 Maybe it was a hangover. The hand that held the dark cigarette couldn’t keep still.
“We have been negotiating by telephone for several days—through me. Everything is settled except the time and place of meeting. It is to be sometime tonight. I shall presently be getting a call to tell me of that. It will not be very far away, they say, and I must be prepared to leave at once.

 ˈaɪ səˈpəʊz ðæt ɪz ˈsəʊ ðæt nəʊ plɑːnt kʊd bi əˈreɪndʒd. wɪð ðə pəˈliːs, ˈaɪ miːn.”
“ˈə-hʌ. ɪz ðə ˈmʌni mɑːkt? ˈaɪ səˈpəʊz ɪt ɪz ˈmʌni?”
“ˈkʌrənsi, əv kɔːs. ˈtwenti ˈdɒlə(ɑː) bɪlz. nəʊ, waɪ ʃʊd ɪt bi mɑːkt?”
“ɪt kæn bi dʌn ˈsəʊ ðæt ɪt teɪks blæk laɪt tuː dɪˈtekt ɪt. nəʊ ˈriːzən—ɪkˈsept ðæt ðə kɒps ˈlaɪk tuː breɪk ʌp ðiːz ɡæŋz—ɪf ˈðeɪ kæn ˈɡet ˈeni kəʊ-ˌɒpəˈreɪʃn̩.

 I suppose that is so that no plant could be arranged. With the police, I mean.”
“Uh-huh. Is the money marked? I suppose it is money?”
“Currency, of course. Twenty dollar bills. No, why should it be marked?”
“It can be done so that it takes black light to detect it. No reason—except that the cops like to break up these gangs—if they can get any co-operation.

 sʌm əv ðə ˈmʌni maɪt tɜːn ʌp ɒn sʌm læd wɪð ə rɪˈkɔːd.”
hiː ˈrɪŋkl̩d hɪz braʊ ˈθɔːtfəli. “ˈaɪ’em əˈfreɪd ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː nəʊ ˈwɒt blæk laɪt ɪz.”
“ˈʌltrə-ˈvaɪələt ɪt ˈmeɪks ˈsɜːtn̩ mɪˈtælɪk ɪŋks ˈɡlɪsn̩ ɪn ðə dɑːk. ˈaɪ kʊd ˈɡet ɪt dʌn fɔː(ɑː) juː.”
“ˈaɪ’em əˈfreɪd ðeə(ɑː) isn’tiː ˈtaɪm fɔː(ɑː) ðæt naʊ,” hiː ˈsed ˈʃɔːtli.
“ðæt’ˈes wʌn əv ðə ˈθɪŋz ðæt ˈwʌrɪz miː.”
“waɪ?”
“waɪ juː ˈəʊnli kɔːld miː ðɪs ˌɑːftəˈnuːn.

 Some of the money might turn up on some lad with a record.”
He wrinkled his brow thoughtfully. “I’m afraid I don’t know what black light is.”
“Ultra-violet It makes certain metallic inks glisten in the dark. I could get it done for you.”
“I’m afraid there isn’t time for that now,” he said shortly.
“That’s one of the things that worries me.”
“Why?”
“Why you only called me this afternoon.

 waɪ juː pɪkt ɒn miː. huː təʊld juː əˈbaʊt miː?”
hiː lɑːft. hɪz lɑːf wɒz ˈrɑːðə(ɑː) ˈbɔɪɪʃ, bʌt nɒt ə ˈveri jʌŋ ˌbɔɪ. “wel, əz ə ˈmætə(ɑː) əv fækt ˈaɪ’laɪnz həv tuː kənˈfes ˈaɪ ˈmɪəli pɪkt jɔː(ɑː) ˈneɪm ət ˈrændəm ˈaʊt əv ðə fəʊn bʊk. juː ˈsiː ˈaɪ hadn’tiː ɪnˈtendɪd tuː həv ˈeniwʌn ɡəʊ wɪð miː. ðen ðɪs ˌɑːftəˈnuːn ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt tuː ˈθɪŋkɪŋ waɪ nɒt.”
ˈaɪ lɪt əˈnʌðə(ɑː) əv maɪ skwɒʃt ˌsɪɡəˈrets ənd wɒtʃt hɪz θrəʊt ˈmʌsl̩z.

 Why you picked on me. Who told you about me?”
He laughed. His laugh was rather boyish, but not a very young boy. “Well, as a matter of fact I’ll have to confess I merely picked your name at random out of the phone book. You see I hadn’t intended to have anyone go with me. Then this afternoon I got to thinking why not.”
I lit another of my squashed cigarettes and watched his throat muscles.

 “ˈwɒt’ˈes ðə plæn?”
hiː spred hɪz hændz. “ˈsɪmpli tuː ɡəʊ weə(ɑː) ˈaɪ əm təʊld, hænd ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ðə ˈpækɪdʒ əv ˈmʌni, ənd rɪˈsiːv ˈbæk ðə dʒeɪd ˈnekləs.”
“ˈə-hʌ.”
“juː siːm fɒnd əv ðæt ɪkˈspreʃn̩.”
“ˈwɒt ɪkˈspreʃn̩?”
“ˈə-hʌ.”
“weə(ɑː) wɪl ˈaɪ bi—ɪn ðə ˈbæk əv ðə kɑː(ɑː)?”
“ˈaɪ səˈpəʊz ˈsəʊ. ɪt’ˈes ə bɪɡ kɑː(ɑː). juː kʊd ˈiːzəli haɪd ɪn ðə ˈbæk əv ɪt.”
“ˈlɪsn̩,” ˈaɪ ˈsed ˈsləʊli.

 “What’s the plan?”
He spread his hands. “Simply to go where I am told, hand over the package of money, and receive back the jade necklace.”
“Uh-huh.”
“You seem fond of that expression.”
“What expression?”
“Uh-huh.”
“Where will I be—in the back of the car?”
“I suppose so. It’s a big car. You could easily hide in the back of it.”
“Listen,” I said slowly.

 “juː plæn tuː ɡəʊ ˈaʊt wɪð miː ˈhɪdn̩ ɪn jɔː(ɑː) kɑː(ɑː) tuː ə ˌdestɪˈneɪʃn̩ juː ə(ɑː) tuː ˈɡet ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ðə fəʊn sʌm ˈtaɪm təˈnaɪt. juː wɪl həv eɪt ɡrænd ɪn ˈkʌrənsi ɒn juː ənd wɪð ðæt juː ə(ɑː) səˈpəʊzd tuː baɪ ˈbæk ə dʒeɪd ˈnekləs wɜːθ ten ɔː(ɑː) twelv ˈtaɪmz ðæt ˈmʌtʃ. ˈwɒt juː wɪl ˈprɒbəbli ˈɡet wɪl bi ə ˈpækɪdʒ juː wʌn’tiː bi əˈlaʊd tuː ˈəʊpən—prəˈvaɪdɪŋ juː ˈɡet ˈeniθɪŋ ət ɔːl.

 “You plan to go out with me hidden in your car to a destination you are to get over the phone some time tonight. You will have eight grand in currency on you and with that you are supposed to buy back a jade necklace worth ten or twelve times that much. What you will probably get will be a package you won’t be allowed to open—providing you get anything at all.

 ɪt’ˈes dʒəst əz ˈlaɪkli ˈðeɪ wɪl ˈsɪmpli teɪk jɔː(ɑː) ˈmʌni, kaʊnt ɪt ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ɪn sʌm ˈʌðə(ɑː) ˈpleɪs, ənd meɪl juː ðə ˈnekləs, ɪf ˈðeɪ fiːl bighearted. ðeə(ɑː)’ˈes ˈnʌθɪŋ tuː prɪˈvent ðem ˈdʌbl̩-ˈkrɒsɪŋ juː.. ˈsɜːtnli ˈnʌθɪŋ ˈaɪ kʊd duː wʊd stɒp ðem. ðiːz ə(ɑː) haɪst ɡaɪz. ˈðeɪ’riː tʌf. ˈðeɪ maɪt ˈiːvn̩ nɒk juː ɒn ðə hed—nɒt hɑːd—dʒəst ɪˈnʌf tuː dɪˈleɪ juː waɪl ˈðeɪ ɡəʊ ɒn ðeə(ɑː) ˈweɪ.

 It’s just as likely they will simply take your money, count it over in some other place, and mail you the necklace, if they feel bighearted. There’s nothing to prevent them double-crossing you.. Certainly nothing I could do would stop them. These are heist guys. They’re tough. They might even knock you on the head—not hard—just enough to delay you while they go on their way.

”
“wel, əz ə ˈmætə(ɑː) əv fækt, ˈaɪ’em ə ˈlɪtl̩ əˈfreɪd əv ˈsʌmθɪŋ ˈlaɪk ðæt,” hiː ˈsed ˈkwaɪətli, ənd hɪz aɪz twɪtʃt. “ˈaɪ səˈpəʊz ðæt’ˈes ˈrɪəli waɪ ˈaɪ ˈwɒntɪd ˈsʌmbədi wɪð miː.”
“dɪd ˈðeɪ ˈpʊt ə flæʃ ɒn juː wen ˈðeɪ pʊld ðə stɪk ʌp?”
hiː ʃʊk ɪz hed, nəʊ.
“nəʊ ˈmætə(ɑː). ˈðeɪ’ˈviː həd ə ˈdʌzn̩ ˈtʃɑːnsɪz tuː lʊk juː ˈəʊvə(ɑː) sɪns. ˈðeɪ ˈprɒbəbli njuː ɔːl əˈbaʊt juː bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) ðæt ˈeniweɪ. ðiːz dʒɒbz ə(ɑː) keɪst.

”
“Well, as a matter of fact, I’m a little afraid of something like that,” he said quietly, and his eyes twitched. “I suppose that’s really why I wanted somebody with me.”
“Did they put a flash on you when they pulled the stick up?”
He shook is head, no.
“No matter. They’ve had a dozen chances to look you over since. They probably knew all about you before that anyway. These jobs are cased.

 ˈðeɪ’riː keɪst ðə ˈweɪ ə ˈdentɪst ˈkeɪsɪz jɔː(ɑː) tuːθ fɔː(ɑː) ə ɡəʊld ˌɪnˈleɪ. juː ɡəʊ ˈaʊt wɪð ðɪs deɪm ˈmʌtʃ?”
“wel—nɒt ɪnˈfriːkwəntli,” hiː ˈsed ˈstɪfli.
“ˈmærɪd?”
“lʊk hɪə(ɑː),” hiː snæpt. “səˈpəʊz wiː liːv ðə ˈleɪdi ˈaʊt əv ðɪs ɪnˈtaɪəli.”
“ˈoki,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “bʌt ðə mɔː(ɑː) ˈaɪ nəʊ ðə ˈfjuːə(ɑː) kʌps ˈaɪ breɪk. ˈaɪ ˈɔːt tuː wɔːk əˈweɪ frəm ðɪs dʒɒb, ˈmeriət. ˈaɪ ˈrɪəli ˈɔːt.

 They’re cased the way a dentist cases your tooth for a gold inlay. You go out with this dame much?”
“Well—not infrequently,” he said stiffly.
“Married?”
“Look here,” he snapped. “Suppose we leave the lady out of this entirely.”
“Okey,” I said. “But the more I know the fewer cups I break. I ought to walk away from this job, Marriott. I really ought.

 ɪf ðə ˈbɔɪz wɒnt tuː ˈpleɪ bɔːl, juː dɒn’tiː niːd miː. ɪf ˈðeɪ dɒn’tiː wɒnt tuː ˈpleɪ bɔːl, ˈaɪ kæn’tiː duː ˈeniθɪŋ əˈbaʊt ɪt.”
“ɔːl ˈaɪ wɒnt ɪz jɔː(ɑː) ˈkʌmpəni,” hiː ˈsed ˈkwɪkli.
ˈaɪ ʃrʌɡd ənd spred maɪ hændz. “ˈoki—bʌt ˈaɪ draɪv ðə kɑː(ɑː) ənd ˈkæri ðə ˈmʌni—ənd juː duː ðə ˈhaɪdɪŋ ɪn ðə ˈbæk. wiː’riː əˈbaʊt ðə seɪm haɪt. ɪf ðeə(ɑː)’ˈes ˈeni ˈkwestʃən, wiː’laɪnz dʒəst tel ðem ðə truːθ. ˈnʌθɪŋ tuː luːz baɪ ɪt.”
“nəʊ.

 If the boys want to play ball, you don’t need me. If they don’t want to play ball, I can’t do anything about it.”
“All I want is your company,” he said quickly.
I shrugged and spread my hands. “Okey—but I drive the car and carry the money—and you do the hiding in the back. We’re about the same height. If there’s any question, we’ll just tell them the truth. Nothing to lose by it.”
“No.

” hiː bɪt hɪz lɪp.
“ˈaɪ’em ˈɡetɪŋ ə ˈhʌndrəd ˈdɒləz fɔː(ɑː) ˈduːɪŋ ˈnʌθɪŋ. ɪf ˈenibɒdi ˈɡets kɒŋkt, ɪt ˈɔːt tuː bi miː.”
hiː fraʊnd ənd ʃʊk hɪz hed, bʌt ˈɑːftə(ɑː) kwaɪt ə ˈlɒŋ ˈtaɪm hɪz feɪs klɪəd ˈsləʊli ənd hiː smaɪld.
“ˈveri wel,” hiː ˈsed ˈsləʊli. “ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː səˈpəʊz ɪt ˈmætəz ˈmʌtʃ. wiː’laɪnz bi təˈɡeðə(ɑː). wʊd juː keə(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː) ə spɒt əv ˈbrændi?”
“ˈə-hʌ. ənd juː maɪt brɪŋ miː maɪ ˈhʌndrəd bʌks.

” He bit his lip.
“I’m getting a hundred dollars for doing nothing. If anybody gets conked, it ought to be me.”
He frowned and shook his head, but after quite a long time his face cleared slowly and he smiled.
“Very well,” he said slowly. “I don’t suppose it matters much. We’ll be together. Would you care for a spot of brandy?”
“Uh-huh. And you might bring me my hundred bucks.

 ˈaɪ ˈlaɪk tuː fiːl ˈmʌni.”
hiː muːvd əˈweɪ ˈlaɪk ə ˈdɑːnsə(ɑː), hɪz ˈbɒdi ˈɔːlməʊst ˈməʊʃnləs frəm ðə weɪst ʌp.
ðə fəʊn ræŋ əz hiː wɒz ɒn hɪz ˈweɪ ˈaʊt. ɪt wɒz ɪn ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈælkəʊv ɒf ðə ˈlɪvɪŋ ruːm ˈprɒpə(ɑː), kʌt ˈɪntə ðə ˈbælkəni.
ɪt wasn’tiː ðə kɔːl wiː wɜː(ɑː) ˈθɪŋkɪŋ əˈbaʊt ðəʊ. hiː ˈsaʊndɪd tuː əˈfekʃənət.

 I like to feel money.”
He moved away like a dancer, his body almost motionless from the waist up.
The phone rang as he was on his way out. It was in a little alcove off the living room proper, cut into the balcony.
It wasn’t the call we were thinking about though. He sounded too affectionate.


hiː dɑːnst ˈbæk ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ə waɪl wɪð ə ˈbɒtl̩ əv faɪv-stɑː(ɑː) ˈmɑːˌtel ənd faɪv naɪs krɪsp ˈtwenti-ˈdɒlə(ɑː) bɪlz. ðæt ˈmeɪd ɪt ə naɪs ˈiːvn̩ɪŋ—ˈsəʊ ˈfɑː(ɑː).
9
ðə ˈhaʊs wɒz ˈveri stɪl. ˈfɑː(ɑː) ɒf ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈsaʊnd wɪtʃ maɪt həv biːn ˈbiːtɪŋ sɜːf ɔː(ɑː) kɑːz ˈzuːmɪŋ əˈlɒŋ ə ˈhaɪweɪ, ɔː(ɑː) wɪnd ɪn paɪn triːz. ɪt wɒz ðə siː, əv kɔːs, ˈbreɪkɪŋ ˈfɑː(ɑː) daʊn bɪˈləʊ.


He danced back after a while with a bottle of Five-Star Martell and five nice crisp twenty-dollar bills. That made it a nice evening—so far.
9
The house was very still. Far off there was a sound which might have been beating surf or cars zooming along a highway, or wind in pine trees. It was the sea, of course, breaking far down below.

 ˈaɪ sæt ðeə(ɑː) ənd ˈlɪsn̩d tuː ɪt ənd ˈθɔːt ˈlɒŋ, ˈkeəfʊl ˈθɔːts.
ðə fəʊn ræŋ fɔː(ɑː) ˈtaɪmz wɪðˈɪn ðə nekst ˈaʊə(ɑː) ənd ə hɑːf. ðə bɪɡ wʌn keɪm ət eɪt ˈmɪnɪts pɑːst ten. ˈmeriət ˈtɔːkt ˈbriːfli, ɪn ə ˈveri ləʊ vɔɪs, ˈkreɪdl̩d ðə ˈɪnstrʊmənt wɪðˈaʊt ə ˈsaʊnd ənd stʊd ʌp wɪð ə sɔːt əv hʌʃt ˈmuːvmənt. hɪz feɪs lʊkt drɔːn. hiː həd tʃeɪndʒd tuː dɑːk kləʊðz naʊ.

 I sat there and listened to it and thought long, careful thoughts.
The phone rang four times within the next hour and a half. The big one came at eight minutes past ten. Marriott talked briefly, in a very low voice, cradled the instrument without a sound and stood up with a sort of hushed movement. His face looked drawn. He had changed to dark clothes now.

 hiː ˈwɔːkt ˈsaɪləntli ˈbæk ˈɪntə ðə ruːm ənd pɔːd hɪmˈself ə stɪf drɪŋk ɪn ə ˈbrændi ˈɡlɑːs. hiː held ɪt əˈɡenst ðə laɪt ə ˈməʊmənt wɪð ə kwɪə(ɑː) ʌnˈhæpi smaɪl, swɜːld ɪt wʌns ˈkwɪkli ənd ˈtɪltɪd hɪz hed ˈbæk tuː pɔː(ɑː) ɪt daʊn hɪz θrəʊt.
“wel—wiː’riː ɔːl set, ˈmɑːˌləʊ. ˈredi?”
“ðæt’ˈes ɔːl ˈaɪ’ˈviː biːn ɔːl ˈiːvn̩ɪŋ. weə(ɑː) duː wiː ɡəʊ?”
“ə ˈpleɪs kɔːld Purissima ˈkænjən.”
“ˈaɪ ˈnevə(ɑː) hɜːd əv ɪt.

 He walked silently back into the room and poured himself a stiff drink in a brandy glass. He held it against the light a moment with a queer unhappy smile, swirled it once quickly and tilted his head back to pour it down his throat.
“Well—we’re all set, Marlowe. Ready?”
“That’s all I’ve been all evening. Where do we go?”
“A place called Purissima Canyon.”
“I never heard of it.

”
“ˈaɪ’laɪnz ˈɡet ə mæp.” hiː ˈɡɒt wʌn ənd spred ɪt ˈaʊt ˈkwɪkli ənd ðə laɪt blɪŋkt ɪn hɪz ˈbrɑːsi heə(ɑː) əz hiː bent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ɪt. ðen hiː ˈpɔɪntɪd wɪð hɪz ˈfɪŋɡə(ɑː). ðə ˈpleɪs wɒz wʌn əv ðə ˈmeni ˈkænjənz ɒf ðə ˈfʊthɪl ˈbuːləvɑːd ðæt tɜːnz ˈɪntə taʊn frəm ðə kəʊst ˈhaɪweɪ nɔːθ əv beɪ ˈsɪti. ˈaɪ həd ə veɪɡ aɪˈdɪə weə(ɑː) ɪt wɒz, bʌt nəʊ mɔː(ɑː). ɪt siːmd tuː bi ət ðə end əv ə striːt kɔːld kəˈmiːnəʊ də lɑː ˈkɒstə.

”
“I’ll get a map.” He got one and spread it out quickly and the light blinked in his brassy hair as he bent over it. Then he pointed with his finger. The place was one of the many canyons off the foothill boulevard that turns into town from the coast highway north of Bay City. I had a vague idea where it was, but no more. It seemed to be at the end of a street called Camino de la Costa.


“ɪt wɪl bi nɒt mɔː(ɑː) ðæn twelv ˈmɪnɪts frəm hɪə(ɑː),” ˈmeriət ˈsed ˈkwɪkli. “wiː’diː ˈbetə(ɑː) ˈɡet ˈmuːvɪŋ. wiː ˈəʊnli həv ˈtwenti ˈmɪnɪts tuː ˈpleɪ wɪð.”
hiː ˈhændɪd miː ə laɪt ˈkʌlərd ˈəʊvəkəʊt wɪtʃ ˈmeɪd miː ə faɪn ˈtɑːɡɪt. ɪt ˈfɪtɪd ˈprɪti wel. ˈaɪ wɔː(ɑː) maɪ əʊn hæt. ˈaɪ həd ə ɡʌn ˈʌndə(ɑː) maɪ ɑːm, bʌt ˈaɪ hadn’tiː təʊld hɪm əˈbaʊt ðæt.


“It will be not more than twelve minutes from here,” Marriott said quickly. “We’d better get moving. We only have twenty minutes to play with.”
He handed me a light colored overcoat which made me a fine target. It fitted pretty well. I wore my own hat. I had a gun under my arm, but I hadn’t told him about that.


waɪl ˈaɪ ˈpʊt ðə ˈkəʊt ɒn, hiː ˈwent ɒn ˈtɔːkɪŋ ɪn ə laɪt ˈnɜːvəs vɔɪs ənd ˈdɑːnsɪŋ ɒn hɪz hændz ðə θɪk məˈnɪlə ˈenvələʊp wɪð ðə eɪt ɡrænd ɪn ɪt.
“Purissima ˈkænjən hæz ə sɔːt əv ˈlevl̩ ʃelf ət ðə ˈɪnə(ɑː) end əv ɪt, ˈðeɪ ˈseɪ. ðɪs ɪz wɔːld ɒf frəm ðə rəʊd baɪ ə waɪt fens əv fɔː(ɑː)-baɪ-fɔːz, bʌt juː kæn dʒəst skwiːz baɪ.


While I put the coat on, he went on talking in a light nervous voice and dancing on his hands the thick manila envelope with the eight grand in it.
“Purissima Canyon has a sort of level shelf at the inner end of it, they say. This is walled off from the road by a white fence of four-by-fours, but you can just squeeze by.

 ə dɜːt rəʊd wɪndz daʊn ˈɪntə ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈhɒləʊ ənd wiː ə(ɑː) tuː weɪt ðeə(ɑː) wɪðˈaʊt laɪts. ðeə(ɑː) ə(ɑː) nəʊ ˈhaʊzɪz əˈraʊnd.”
“wiː?”
“wel, ˈaɪ miːn ‘ˈaɪ’—θɪəˈretɪkl̩i.”
hiː ˈhændɪd miː ðə məˈnɪlə ˈenvələʊp ənd ˈaɪ ˈəʊpənd ɪt ʌp ənd lʊkt ət ˈwɒt wɒz ɪnˈsaɪd. ɪt wɒz ˈmʌni ɔːl raɪt, ə hjuːdʒ wɒd əv ˈkʌrənsi. ˈaɪ didn’tiː kaʊnt ɪt. ˈaɪ snæpt ðə ˈrʌbə(r) əˈraʊnd əˈɡen ənd stʌft ðə ˈpækɪt daʊn ɪnˈsaɪd maɪ ˈəʊvəkəʊt.

 A dirt road winds down into a little hollow and we are to wait there without lights. There are no houses around.”
“We?”
“Well, I mean ‘I’—theoretically.”
He handed me the manila envelope and I opened it up and looked at what was inside. It was money all right, a huge wad of currency. I didn’t count it. I snapped the rubber around again and stuffed the packet down inside my overcoat.

 ɪt ˈɔːlməʊst keɪvd ɪn ə rɪb.
wiː ˈwent tuː ðə dɔː(ɑː) ənd ˈmeriət swɪtʃt ɒf ɔːl ðə laɪts. hiː ˈəʊpənd ðə frʌnt dɔː(ɑː) ˈkɔːʃəsli ənd pɪəd ˈaʊt ət ðə ˈfɒɡi eə(ɑː). wiː ˈwent ˈaʊt ənd daʊn ðə sɔːlt-ˈtɑːnɪʃt ˈspaɪərəl ˈsteəweɪ tuː ðə striːt ˈlevl̩ ənd ðə ˈɡærɑːʒ.
ɪt wɒz ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈfɒɡi, ðə ˈweɪ ɪt ˈɔːlweɪz ɪz daʊn ðeə(ɑː) ət naɪt. ˈaɪ həd tuː stɑːt ʌp ðə ˈwɪndʃiːld ˈwaɪpə(r) fɔː(ɑː) ə waɪl.

 It almost caved in a rib.
We went to the door and Marriott switched off all the lights. He opened the front door cautiously and peered out at the foggy air. We went out and down the salt-tarnished spiral stairway to the street level and the garage.
It was a little foggy, the way it always is down there at night. I had to start up the windshield wiper for a while.


ðə bɪɡ ˈfɒrən kɑː(ɑː) drəʊv ɪtˈself, bʌt ˈaɪ held ðə ˈwiːl̩ fɔː(ɑː) ðə seɪk əv əˈpɪərənsɪz.
fɔː(ɑː) ˈtuː ˈmɪnɪts wiː ˈfɪɡə(ɑː)-eighted ˈbæk ənd fɔːθ əˈkrɒs ðə feɪs əv ðə ˈmaʊntɪn ənd ðen pɒpt ˈaʊt raɪt bɪˈsaɪd ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk ˈkæfeɪ. ˈaɪ kʊd ˌʌndəˈstænd naʊ waɪ ˈmeriət həd təʊld miː tuː wɔːk ʌp ðə steps.


The big foreign car drove itself, but I held the wheel for the sake of appearances.
For two minutes we figure-eighted back and forth across the face of the mountain and then popped out right beside the sidewalk cafe. I could understand now why Marriott had told me to walk up the steps.

 ˈaɪ kʊd həv ˈdrɪvn̩ əˈbaʊt ɪn ðəʊz ˈkɜːvɪŋ, ˈtwɪstɪŋ striːts fɔː(ɑː) ˈaʊəz wɪðˈaʊt ˈmeɪkɪŋ ˈeni mɔː(ɑː) ˈjɑːdɪdʒ ðæn ən ˈæŋɡlwɜːm ɪn ə beɪt kæn.
ɒn ðə ˈhaɪweɪ ðə laɪts əv ðə ˈstriːmɪŋ kɑːz ˈmeɪd ən ˈɔːlməʊst ˈsɒlɪd biːm ɪn bəʊθ dɪˈrekʃn̩z. ðə bɪɡ cornpoppers wɜː(ɑː) ˈrəʊlɪŋ nɔːθ ˈɡraʊlɪŋ əz ˈðeɪ ˈwent ənd feˈstuːnd ɔːl ˈəʊvə(ɑː) wɪð ˈɡriːn ənd ˈjeləʊ ˌəʊvəˈhæŋ laɪts.

 I could have driven about in those curving, twisting streets for hours without making any more yardage than an angleworm in a bait can.
On the highway the lights of the streaming cars made an almost solid beam in both directions. The big cornpoppers were rolling north growling as they went and festooned all over with green and yellow overhang lights.

 θriː ˈmɪnɪts əv ðæt ənd wiː tɜːnd ɪnˈlænd, baɪ ə bɪɡ ˈsɜːvɪs ˈsteɪʃn̩, ənd wuːnd əˈlɒŋ ðə flæŋk əv ðə ˈfʊthɪlz. ɪt ˈɡɒt ˈkwaɪət. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ˈləʊnlɪnəs ənd ðə smel əv kelp ənd ðə smel əv waɪld seɪdʒ frəm ðə hɪlz. ə ˈjeləʊ ˈwɪndəʊ hʌŋ hɪə(ɑː) ənd ðeə(ɑː), ɔːl baɪ ɪtˈself, ˈlaɪk ðə lɑːst ˈɒrɪndʒ. kɑːz pɑːst, ˈspreɪɪŋ ðə ˈpeɪvmənt wɪð kəʊld waɪt laɪt, ðen ɡraʊld ɒf ˈɪntə ðə ˈdɑːknəs əˈɡen.

 Three minutes of that and we turned inland, by a big service station, and wound along the flank of the foothills. It got quiet. There was loneliness and the smell of kelp and the smell of wild sage from the hills. A yellow window hung here and there, all by itself, like the last orange. Cars passed, spraying the pavement with cold white light, then growled off into the darkness again.

 wɪsps əv fɒɡ tʃeɪst ðə stɑːz daʊn ðə skaɪ.
ˈmeriət liːnd ˈfɔːwəd frəm ðə dɑːk rɪə(ɑː) siːt ənd ˈsed:
“ðəʊz laɪts ɒf tuː ðə raɪt ə(ɑː) ðə ˌbelvəˈdɪr biːtʃ klʌb. ðə nekst ˈkænjən ɪz læs Pulgas ənd ðə nekst afterthat Purissima. wiː tɜːn raɪt ət ðə tɒp əv ðə ˈsekənd raɪz.” hɪz vɔɪs wɒz hʌʃt ənd tɔːt.
ˈaɪ ˈɡrʌntɪd ənd kept ɒn ˈdraɪvɪŋ. “kiːp jɔː(ɑː) hed daʊn,” ˈaɪ ˈsed ˈəʊvə(ɑː) maɪ ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː).

 Wisps of fog chased the stars down the sky.
Marriott leaned forward from the dark rear seat and said:
“Those lights off to the right are the Belvedere Beach Club. The next canyon is Las Pulgas and the next afterthat Purissima. We turn right at the top of the second rise.” His voice was hushed and taut.
I grunted and kept on driving. “Keep your head down,” I said over my shoulder.

 “wiː meɪ bi wɒtʃt ɔːl ðə ˈweɪ. ðɪs kɑː(ɑː) stɪks ˈaʊt ˈlaɪk spæts ət ən ˈaɪəwə ˈpɪknɪk. kʊd bi ðə ˈbɔɪz dɒn’tiː ˈlaɪk jɔː(ɑː) ˈbiːɪŋ twɪnz.”
wiː ˈwent daʊn ˈɪntə ə ˈhɒləʊ ət ðə ˈɪnwəd end əv ə ˈkænjən ənd ðen ʌp ɒn ðə haɪ ɡraʊnd ənd ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ə ˈlɪtl̩ waɪl daʊn əˈɡen ənd ʌp əˈɡen. ðen ˈmeriət’ˈes taɪt vɔɪs ˈsed ɪn maɪ ɪə(ɑː):
“nekst striːt ɒn ðə raɪt. ðə ˈhaʊs wɪð ðə skweə(ɑː) ˈtʌrɪt. tɜːn bɪˈsaɪd ðæt.

 “We may be watched all the way. This car sticks out like spats at an Iowa picnic. Could be the boys don’t like your being twins.”
We went down into a hollow at the inward end of a canyon and then up on the high ground and after a little while down again and up again. Then Marriott’s tight voice said in my ear:
“Next street on the right. The house with the square turret. Turn beside that.

”
“juː didn’tiː help ðem pɪk ðɪs ˈpleɪs ˈaʊt, dɪd juː?”
“ˈhɑːdli,” hiː ˈsed, ənd lɑːft ˈɡrɪmli. “ˈaɪ dʒəst ˈhæpən tuː nəʊ ðiːz ˈkænjənz ˈprɪti wel.”
ˈaɪ swʌŋ ðə kɑː(ɑː) tuː ðə raɪt pɑːst ə bɪɡ ˈkɔːnə(ɑː) ˈhaʊs wɪð ə skweə(ɑː) waɪt ˈtʌrɪt tɒpt wɪð ˈraʊnd taɪlz. ðə ˈhedlaɪts spreɪd fɔː(ɑː) ən ˈɪnstənt ɒn ə striːt saɪn ðæt riːd: kəˈmiːnəʊ də lɑː ˈkɒstə.

”
“You didn’t help them pick this place out, did you?”
“Hardly,” he said, and laughed grimly. “I just happen to know these canyons pretty well.”
I swung the car to the right past a big corner house with a square white turret topped with round tiles. The headlights sprayed for an instant on a street sign that read: Camino de la Costa.

 wiː slɪd daʊn ə brɔːd ˈævənjuː laɪnd wɪð ʌnˈfɪnɪʃt electroliers ənd wiːd-ɡrəʊn ˈsaɪdwɔːks. sʌm ˈrɪəltə(r)’ˈes driːm həd tɜːnd ˈɪntə ə ˈhæŋəʊvə(ɑː) ðeə(ɑː). ˈkrɪkɪts tʃɜːpt ənd ˈbʊlfrɒɡz huːpt ɪn ðə ˈdɑːknəs bɪˈhaɪnd ðə ˌəʊvəˈɡrəʊn ˈsaɪdwɔːks. ˈmeriət’ˈes kɑː(ɑː) wɒz ðæt ˈsaɪlənt.
ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈhaʊs tuː ə ˈblɒk, ðen ə ˈhaʊs tuː ˈtuː ˈblɒks, ðen nəʊ ˈhaʊzɪz ət ɔːl.

 We slid down a broad avenue lined with unfinished electroliers and weed-grown sidewalks. Some realtor’s dream had turned into a hangover there. Crickets chirped and bullfrogs whooped in the darkness behind the overgrown sidewalks. Marriott’s car was that silent.
There was a house to a block, then a house to two blocks, then no houses at all.

 ə veɪɡ ˈwɪndəʊ ɔː(ɑː) ˈtuː wɒz stɪl ˈlaɪtɪd, bʌt ðə ˈpiːpl̩ əˈraʊnd ðeə(ɑː) siːmd tuː ɡəʊ tuː bed wɪð ðə ˈtʃɪkɪnz. ðen ðə peɪvd ˈævənjuː ˈendɪd əˈbrʌptli ɪn ə dɜːt rəʊd pækt əz hɑːd əz ˈkɒŋkriːt ɪn draɪ ˈweðə(r). ðə laɪts əv ðə ˌbelvəˈdɪr biːtʃ klʌb hʌŋ ɪn ðə eə(ɑː) tuː ðə raɪt ənd ˈfɑː(ɑː) əˈhed ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ɡliːm əv ˈmuːvɪŋ ˈwɔːtə(ɑː). ðə ˈækrɪd smel əv ðə seɪdʒ fɪld ðə naɪt.

 A vague window or two was still lighted, but the people around there seemed to go to bed with the chickens. Then the paved avenue ended abruptly in a dirt road packed as hard as concrete in dry weather. The lights of the Belvedere Beach Club hung in the air to the right and far ahead there was a gleam of moving water. The acrid smell of the sage filled the night.

 ðen ə waɪt ˈpeɪntɪd ˈbæriə(ɑː) luːmd əˈkrɒs ðə dɜːt rəʊd ənd ˈmeriət spəʊk ət maɪ ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː) əˈɡen.
“ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː ˈθɪŋk juː kæn ˈɡet pɑːst ɪt,” hiː ˈsed. “ðə speɪs doesn’tiː lʊk waɪd ɪˈnʌf.”
ˈaɪ kʌt ðə ˈnɔɪzləs ˈməʊtə(r), dɪmd ðə laɪts ənd sæt ðeə(ɑː), ˈlɪsn̩ɪŋ. ˈnʌθɪŋ. ˈaɪ swɪtʃt ðə laɪt ɒf ˌɔːltəˈɡeðə(ɑː) ənd ˈɡɒt ˈaʊt əv ðə kɑː(ɑː). ðə ˈkrɪkɪts stɒpt ˈtʃɜːpɪŋ.

 Then a white painted barrier loomed across the dirt road and Marriott spoke at my shoulder again.
“I don’t think you can get past it,” he said. “The space doesn’t look wide enough.”
I cut the noiseless motor, dimmed the lights and sat there, listening. Nothing. I switched the light off altogether and got out of the car. The crickets stopped chirping.

 fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈlɪtl̩ waɪl ðə ˈsaɪləns wɒz ˈsəʊ kəmˈpliːt ðæt ˈaɪ kʊd hɪə(ɑː) ðə ˈsaʊnd əv ˈtaɪəz ɒn ðə ˈhaɪweɪ ət ðə ˈbɒtəm əv ðə klɪfs, ə maɪl əˈweɪ. ðen wʌn baɪ wʌn ðə ˈkrɪkɪts ˈstɑːtɪd ʌp əˈɡen ʌnˈtɪl ðə naɪt wɒz fʊl əv ðem.
“sɪt taɪt. ˈaɪ’em ˈɡəʊɪŋ daʊn ðeə(ɑː) ənd həv ə lʊk ˈsiː,” ˈaɪ ˈwɪspəd ˈɪntə ðə ˈbæk əv ðə kɑː(ɑː).
ˈaɪ tʌtʃt ðə ɡʌn bʌt ɪnˈsaɪd maɪ ˈkəʊt ənd ˈwɔːkt ˈfɔːwəd.

 For a little while the silence was so complete that I could hear the sound of tires on the highway at the bottom of the cliffs, a mile away. Then one by one the crickets started up again until the night was full of them.
“Sit tight. I’m going down there and have a look see,” I whispered into the back of the car.
I touched the gun butt inside my coat and walked forward.

 ðeə(ɑː) wɒz mɔː(ɑː) ruːm bɪˈtwiːn ðə brʌʃ ənd ðə end əv ðə waɪt ˈbæriə(ɑː) ðæn ðeə(ɑː) həd siːmd tuː bi frəm ðə kɑː(ɑː). ˈsʌmwʌn həd hækt ðə brʌʃ əˈweɪ ənd ðeə(ɑː) wɜː(ɑː) kɑː(ɑː) mɑːks ɪn ðə dɜːt. ˈprɒbəbli kɪdz ˈɡəʊɪŋ daʊn ðeə(ɑː) tuː nek ɒn wɔːm naɪts. ˈaɪ ˈwent ɒn pɑːst ðə ˈbæriə(ɑː). ðə rəʊd drɒpt ənd kɜːvd. bɪˈləʊ wɒz ˈdɑːknəs ənd ə veɪɡ ˈfɑː(ɑː) ɒf siː-ˈsaʊnd. ənd ðə laɪts əv kɑːz ɒn ðə ˈhaɪweɪ. ˈaɪ ˈwent ɒn.

 There was more room between the brush and the end of the white barrier than there had seemed to be from the car. Someone had hacked the brush away and there were car marks in the dirt. Probably kids going down there to neck on warm nights. I went on past the barrier. The road dropped and curved. Below was darkness and a vague far off sea-sound. And the lights of cars on the highway. I went on.

 ðə rəʊd ˈendɪd ɪn ə ˈʃæləʊ bəʊl ɪnˈtaɪəli səˈraʊndɪd baɪ brʌʃ. ɪt wɒz ˈempti. ðeə(ɑː) siːmd tuː bi nəʊ ˈweɪ ˈɪntə ɪt bʌt ðə ˈweɪ ˈaɪ həd kʌm. ˈaɪ stʊd ðeə(ɑː) ɪn ðə ˈsaɪləns ənd ˈlɪsn̩d.
maɪˈnjuːt pɑːst ˈsləʊli ˈɑːftə(ɑː) maɪˈnjuːt, bʌt ˈaɪ kept ɒn ˈweɪtɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) sʌm njuː ˈsaʊnd. nʌn keɪm. ˈaɪ siːmd tuː həv ðæt ˈhɒləʊ ɪnˈtaɪəli tuː maɪˈself.
ˈaɪ lʊkt əˈkrɒs tuː ðə ˈlaɪtɪd biːtʃ klʌb.

 The road ended in a shallow bowl entirely surrounded by brush. It was empty. There seemed to be no way into it but the way I had come. I stood there in the silence and listened.
Minute passed slowly after minute, but I kept on waiting for some new sound. None came. I seemed to have that hollow entirely to myself.
I looked across to the lighted beach club.

 frəm ɪts ˈʌpə(ɑː) ˈwɪndəʊz ə mæn wɪð ə ɡʊd naɪt ˈɡlɑːs kʊd ˈprɒbəbli ˈkʌvə(ɑː) ðɪs spɒt ˈfeəli wel. hiː kʊd ˈsiː ə kɑː(ɑː) kʌm ənd ɡəʊ, ˈsiː huː ˈɡɒt ˈaʊt əv ɪt, ˈweðə(ɑː) ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ɡruːp əv men ɔː(ɑː) dʒəst wʌn. ˈsɪtɪŋ ɪn ə dɑːk ruːm wɪð ə ɡʊd naɪt ˈɡlɑːs juː kæn ˈsiː ə lɒt mɔː(ɑː) ˈdiːteɪl ðæn juː wʊd ˈθɪŋk ˈpɒsəbl̩.
ˈaɪ tɜːnd tuː ɡəʊ ˈbæk ʌp ðə hɪl.

 From its upper windows a man with a good night glass could probably cover this spot fairly well. He could see a car come and go, see who got out of it, whether there was a group of men or just one. Sitting in a dark room with a good night glass you can see a lot more detail than you would think possible.
I turned to go back up the hill.

 frəm ðə beɪs əv ə bʊʃ ə ˈkrɪkɪt tʃɜːpt laʊd ɪˈnʌf tuː ˈmeɪk miː dʒʌmp. ˈaɪ ˈwent ɒn ʌp əˈraʊnd ðə kɜːv ənd pɑːst ðə waɪt ˌbærɪˈkeɪd. stɪl ˈnʌθɪŋ. ðə blæk kɑː(ɑː) stʊd ˈdɪmli ˈʃaɪnɪŋ əˈɡenst ə grayness wɪtʃ wɒz ˈnaɪðə(ɑː) ˈdɑːknəs nɔː(ɑː) laɪt. ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː ɪt ənd ˈpʊt ə fʊt ɒn ðə ˈrʌnɪŋ bɔːd bɪˈsaɪd ðə ˈdraɪvə(ɑː)’ˈes siːt.

 From the base of a bush a cricket chirped loud enough to make me jump. I went on up around the curve and past the white barricade. Still nothing. The black car stood dimly shining against a grayness which was neither darkness nor light. I went over to it and put a foot on the running board beside the driver’s seat.


“lʊks ˈlaɪk ə ˈtraɪaʊt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed ˈʌndə(ɑː) maɪ breθ, bʌt laʊd ɪˈnʌf fɔː(ɑː) ˈmeriət tuː hɪə(ɑː) miː frəm ðə ˈbæk əv ðə kɑː(ɑː). “dʒəst tuː ˈsiː ɪf juː əˈbeɪ ˈɔːdəz.”
ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə veɪɡ ˈmuːvmənt bɪˈhaɪnd bʌt hiː didn’tiː ˈɑːnsə(ɑː). ˈaɪ ˈwent ɒn ˈtraɪɪŋ tuː ˈsiː ˈsʌmθɪŋ bɪˈsaɪdz ˈbʊʃɪz.
huːˈevə(r) ɪt wɒz həd ə naɪs ˈiːzi ʃɒt ət ðə ˈbæk əv maɪ hed. ˈɑːftəwədz ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt ˈaɪ maɪt həv hɜːd ðə swɪʃ əv ə sæp.


“Looks like a tryout,” I said under my breath, but loud enough for Marriott to hear me from the back of the car. “Just to see if you obey orders.”
There was a vague movement behind but he didn’t answer. I went on trying to see something besides bushes.
Whoever it was had a nice easy shot at the back of my head. Afterwards I thought I might have heard the swish of a sap.

 ˈmeɪbiː juː ˈɔːlweɪz ˈθɪŋk ðæt—ˈɑːftəwədz.

 Maybe you always think that—afterwards.

10
“fɔː(ɑː) ˈmɪnɪts,” ðə vɔɪs ˈsed. “faɪv, ˈpɒsəbli sɪks. ˈðeɪ mʌst həv muːvd kwɪk ənd ˈkwaɪət. hiː didn’tiː ˈiːvn̩ let ˈaʊt ə jel.”
ˈaɪ ˈəʊpənd maɪ aɪz ənd lʊkt fuzzilei ət ə kəʊld stɑː(ɑː). ˈaɪ wɒz ˈlaɪɪŋ ɒn maɪ ˈbæk. ˈaɪ felt sɪk.
ðə vɔɪs ˈsed: “ɪt kʊd həv biːn ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈlɒŋɡə(ɑː). ˈmeɪbiː ˈiːvn̩ eɪt ˈmɪnɪts ˌɔːltəˈɡeðə(ɑː).

10
“Four minutes,” the voice said. “Five, possibly six. They must have moved quick and quiet. He didn’t even let out a yell.”
I opened my eyes and looked fuzzily at a cold star. I was lying on my back. I felt sick.
The voice said: “It could have been a little longer. Maybe even eight minutes altogether.

 ˈðeɪ mʌst həv biːn ɪn ðə brʌʃ, raɪt weə(ɑː) ðə kɑː(ɑː) stɒpt. ðə ɡaɪ skeəd ˈiːzəli. ˈðeɪ mʌst həv ˈθrəʊn ə smɔːl laɪt ɪn hɪz feɪs ənd hiː pɑːst ˈaʊt—dʒəst frəm ˈpænɪk. ðə ˈpænzi.”
ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ˈsaɪləns. ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt ʌp ɒn wʌn niː. peɪnz ʃɒt frəm ðə ˈbæk əv maɪ hed klɪə(ɑː) tuː maɪ ˈæŋkl̩z.
“ðen wʌn əv ðem ˈɡɒt ˈɪntə ðə kɑː(ɑː),” ðə vɔɪs ˈsed, “ənd ˈweɪtɪd fɔː(ɑː) juː tuː kʌm ˈbæk. ðə ˈʌðəz hɪd əˈɡen.

 They must have been in the brush, right where the car stopped. The guy scared easily. They must have thrown a small light in his face and he passed out—just from panic. The pansy.”
There was silence. I got up on one knee. Pains shot from the back of my head clear to my ankles.
“Then one of them got into the car,” the voice said, “and waited for you to come back. The others hid again.

 ˈðeɪ mʌst həv ˈfɪɡəd hiː wʊd bi əˈfreɪd tuː kʌm əˈləʊn. ɔː(ɑː) ˈsʌmθɪŋ ɪn hɪz vɔɪs ˈmeɪd ðem səˈspɪʃəs, wen ˈðeɪ ˈtɔːkt tuː hɪm ɒn ðə fəʊn.”
ˈaɪ ˈbælənst maɪˈself woozily ɒn ðə flæt əv maɪ hændz, ˈlɪsn̩ɪŋ.
“jeə, ðæt wɒz əˈbaʊt ˈhaʊ ɪt wɒz,” ðə vɔɪs ˈsed.
ɪt wɒz maɪ vɔɪs. ˈaɪ wɒz ˈtɔːkɪŋ tuː maɪˈself, ˈkʌmɪŋ ˈaʊt əv ɪt. ˈaɪ wɒz ˈtraɪɪŋ tuː ˈfɪɡə(ɑː) ðə ˈθɪŋ ˈaʊt ˌsʌbˈkɒnʃəsli.

 They must have figured he would be afraid to come alone. Or something in his voice made them suspicious, when they talked to him on the phone.”
I balanced myself woozily on the flat of my hands, listening.
“Yeah, that was about how it was,” the voice said.
It was my voice. I was talking to myself, coming out of it. I was trying to figure the thing out subconsciously.


“ʃʌt ʌp, juː ˈdɪmwɪt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed, ənd stɒpt ˈtɔːkɪŋ tuː maɪˈself.
ˈfɑː(ɑː) ɒf ðə pɜːl əv ˈməʊtəz, ˈnɪərə(ɑː) ðə tʃɜːp əv ˈkrɪkɪts, ðə pɪˈkjuːlɪə(r) ˈlɒŋ drɔːn ˈiː-ˈiː-ˈiː əv triː frɒɡz. ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈθɪŋk ˈaɪ wɒz ˈɡəʊɪŋ tuː ˈlaɪk ðəʊz ˈsaʊndz ˈeni mɔː(ɑː).
ˈaɪ ˈlɪftɪd ə hænd ɒf ðə ɡraʊnd ənd ˈtraɪd tuː ʃeɪk ðə ˈstɪki seɪdʒ uːz ɒf ɪt, ðen rʌbd ɪt ɒn ðə saɪd əv maɪ ˈkəʊt. naɪs ˈwɜːk, fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈhʌndrəd ˈdɒləz.


“Shut up, you dimwit,” I said, and stopped talking to myself.
Far off the purl of motors, nearer the chirp of crickets, the peculiar long drawn ee-ee-ee of tree frogs. I didn’t think I was going to like those sounds any more.
I lifted a hand off the ground and tried to shake the sticky sage ooze off it, then rubbed it on the side of my coat. Nice work, for a hundred dollars.

 ðə hænd dʒʌmpt ət ðə ɪnˈsaɪd ˈpɒkɪt əv ðə ˈəʊvəkəʊt. nəʊ məˈnɪlə ˈenvələʊp, ˈnætʃrəli. ðə hænd dʒʌmpt ɪnˈsaɪd maɪ əʊn suːt ˈkəʊt. maɪ ˈwɒlɪt wɒz stɪl ðeə(ɑː). ˈaɪ ˈwʌndəd ɪf maɪ ˈhʌndrəd wɒz stɪl ɪn ɪt. ˈprɒbəbli nɒt. ˈsʌmθɪŋ felt ˈhevi əˈɡenst maɪ left rɪbz. ðə ɡʌn ɪn ðə ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː) ˈhəʊlstə(ɑː).
ðæt wɒz ə naɪs tʌtʃ. ˈðeɪ left miː maɪ ɡʌn.

 The hand jumped at the inside pocket of the overcoat. No manila envelope, naturally. The hand jumped inside my own suit coat. My wallet was still there. I wondered if my hundred was still in it. Probably not. Something felt heavy against my left ribs. The gun in the shoulder holster.
That was a nice touch. They left me my gun.

 ə naɪs tʌtʃ əv ˈsʌmθɪŋ ɔː(ɑː) ˈʌðə(ɑː)—ˈlaɪk ˈkləʊzɪŋ ə mæn’ˈes aɪz ˈɑːftə(ɑː) juː naɪf hɪm.
ˈaɪ felt ðə ˈbæk əv maɪ hed. maɪ hæt wɒz stɪl ɒn. ˈaɪ tʊk ɪt ɒf, nɒt wɪðˈaʊt dɪsˈkʌmfət ənd felt ðə hed ˌʌndəˈniːθ. ɡʊd əʊld hed, ˈaɪ’diː həd ɪt ə ˈlɒŋ ˈtaɪm. ɪt wɒz ə ˈlɪtl̩ sɒft naʊ, ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈpʌlpi, ənd mɔː(ɑː) ðæn ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈtendə(ɑː). bʌt ə ˈprɪti laɪt ˈsæpɪŋ ət ðæt. ðə hæt həd helpt. ˈaɪ kʊd stɪl ˈjuːs ðə hed.

 A nice touch of something or other—like closing a man’s eyes after you knife him.
I felt the back of my head. My hat was still on. I took it off, not without discomfort and felt the head underneath. Good old head, I’d had it a long time. It was a little soft now, a little pulpy, and more than a little tender. But a pretty light sapping at that. The hat had helped. I could still use the head.

 ˈaɪ kʊd ˈjuːs ɪt əˈnʌðə(ɑː) ˈjiə(ɑː) ˈeniweɪ.
ˈaɪ ˈpʊt maɪ raɪt hænd ˈbæk ɒn ðə ɡraʊnd ənd tʊk ðə left ɒf ənd ˈswɪvl̩d ɪt əˈraʊnd ʌnˈtɪl ˈaɪ kʊd ˈsiː maɪ wɒtʃ. ðə ɪˈluːmɪneɪtɪd ˈdaɪəl ʃəʊd 10.56, əz ˈnɪəli əz ˈaɪ kʊd ˈfəʊkəs ɒn ɪt.
ðə kɔːl həd kʌm ət 10.08. ˈmeriət həd ˈtɔːkt ˈmeɪbiː ˈtuː ˈmɪnɪts. əˈnʌðə(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː) həd ˈɡɒt ˈəs ˈaʊt əv ðə ˈhaʊs. ˈtaɪm ˈpɑːsɪz ˈveri ˈsləʊli wen juː ə(ɑː) ˈæktʃuəli ˈduːɪŋ ˈsʌmθɪŋ.

 I could use it another year anyway.
I put my right hand back on the ground and took the left off and swivelled it around until I could see my watch. The illuminated dial showed 10.56, as nearly as I could focus on it.
The call had come at 10.08. Marriott had talked maybe two minutes. Another four had got us out of the house. Time passes very slowly when you are actually doing something.

 ˈaɪ miːn, juː kæn ɡəʊ θruː ə lɒt əv ˈmuːvmənts ɪn ˈveri fjuː ˈmɪnɪts. ɪz ðæt ˈwɒt ˈaɪ miːn? ˈwɒt ðə hel duː ˈaɪ keə(ɑː) ˈwɒt ˈaɪ miːn? ˈoki, ˈbetə(ɑː) men ðæn miː həv ment les. ˈoki, ˈwɒt ˈaɪ miːn ɪz, ðæt wʊd bi 10.15, ˈseɪ. ðə ˈpleɪs wɒz əˈbaʊt twelv ˈmɪnɪts əˈweɪ. 10.27. ˈaɪ ˈɡet ˈaʊt, wɔːk daʊn ɪn ðə ˈhɒləʊ, spend ət ðə məʊst eɪt ˈmɪnɪts ˈfuːlɪŋ əˈraʊnd ənd kʌm ɒn ˈbæk ʌp tuː ˈɡet maɪ hed ˈtriːtɪd. 10.35.

 I mean, you can go through a lot of movements in very few minutes. Is that what I mean? What the hell do I care what I mean? Okey, better men than me have meant less. Okey, what I mean is, that would be 10.15, say. The place was about twelve minutes away. 10.27. I get out, walk down in the hollow, spend at the most eight minutes fooling around and come on back up to get my head treated. 10.35.

 ɡɪv miː ə maɪˈnjuːt tuː fɔːl daʊn ənd hɪt ðə ɡraʊnd wɪð maɪ feɪs. ðə ˈriːzən ˈaɪ hɪt ɪt wɪð maɪ feɪs, ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt maɪ tʃɪn skreɪpt. ɪt hɜːts. ɪt fiːlz skreɪpt. ðæt ˈweɪ ˈaɪ nəʊ ɪt’ˈes skreɪpt. nəʊ, ˈaɪ kæn’tiː ˈsiː ɪt. ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː həv tuː ˈsiː ɪt. ɪt’ˈes maɪ tʃɪn ənd ˈaɪ nəʊ ˈweðə(ɑː) ɪt’ˈes skreɪpt ɔː(ɑː) nɒt. ˈmeɪbiː juː wɒnt tuː ˈmeɪk ˈsʌmθɪŋ əv ɪt. ˈoki, ʃʌt ʌp ənd let miː ˈθɪŋk. ˈwɒt wɪð? . . .
ðə wɒtʃ ʃəʊd 10.56 ˈpiː.em.

 Give me a minute to fall down and hit the ground with my face. The reason I hit it with my face, I got my chin scraped. It hurts. It feels scraped. That way I know it’s scraped. No, I can’t see it. I don’t have to see it. It’s my chin and I know whether it’s scraped or not. Maybe you want to make something of it. Okey, shut up and let me think. What with? . . .
The watch showed 10.56 p.m.

 ðæt ment ˈaɪ həd biːn ˈaʊt fɔː(ɑː) ˈtwenti ˈmɪnɪts.
ˈtwenti ˈmɪnɪts’ sliːp. dʒəst ə naɪs dəʊz. ɪn ðæt ˈtaɪm ˈaɪ həd mʌft ə dʒɒb ənd lɒst eɪt ˈθaʊzn̩d ˈdɒləz. wel, waɪ nɒt? ɪn ˈtwenti ˈmɪnɪts juː kæn sɪŋk ə ˈbætlʃɪp, daʊn θriː ɔː(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː) pleɪnz, həʊld ə ˈdʌbl̩ ˌeksɪˈkjuːʃn̩. juː kæn daɪ, ˈɡet ˈmærɪd, ˈɡet ˈfaɪəd ənd faɪnd ə njuː dʒɒb, həv ə tuːθ pʊld, həv jɔː(ɑː) ˈtɒnsɪlz ˈaʊt.

 That meant I had been out for twenty minutes.
Twenty minutes’ sleep. Just a nice doze. In that time I had muffed a job and lost eight thousand dollars. Well, why not? In twenty minutes you can sink a battleship, down three or four planes, hold a double execution. You can die, get married, get fired and find a new job, have a tooth pulled, have your tonsils out.

 ɪn ˈtwenti ˈmɪnɪts juː kæn ˈiːvn̩ ˈɡet ʌp ɪn ðə ˈmɔːnɪŋ. juː kæn ˈɡet ə ˈɡlɑːs əv ˈwɔːtə(ɑː) ət ə naɪt klʌb—ˈmeɪbiː.
ˈtwenti ˈmɪnɪts’ sliːp. ðæt’ˈes ə ˈlɒŋ ˈtaɪm. ɪˈspeʃəli ɒn ə kəʊld naɪt, ˈaʊt ɪn ðə ˈəʊpən. ˈaɪ bɪˈɡæn tuː ˈʃɪvə(r).
ˈaɪ wɒz stɪl ɒn maɪ niːz. ðə smel əv ðə seɪdʒ wɒz bɪˈɡɪnɪŋ tuː ˈbɒðə(ɑː) miː. ðə ˈstɪki uːz frəm wɪtʃ waɪld biːz ˈɡet ðeə(ɑː) ˈhʌni. ˈhʌni wɒz swiːt, ˈmʌtʃ tuː swiːt.

 In twenty minutes you can even get up in the morning. You can get a glass of water at a night club—maybe.
Twenty minutes’ sleep. That’s a long time. Especially on a cold night, out in the open. I began to shiver.
I was still on my knees. The smell of the sage was beginning to bother me. The sticky ooze from which wild bees get their honey. Honey was sweet, much too sweet.

 maɪ ˈstʌmək tʊk ə wɜːl. ˈaɪ klæmpt maɪ tiːθ taɪt ənd dʒəst ˈmænɪdʒd tuː kiːp ɪt daʊn maɪ θrəʊt. kəʊld swet stʊd ˈaʊt ɪn lʌmps ɒn maɪ ˈfɒrɪd, bʌt ˈaɪ ˈʃɪvəd dʒəst ðə seɪm. ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt ʌp ɒn wʌn fʊt, ðen ɒn bəʊθ fiːt, ˈstreɪtn̩d ʌp, ˈwɒbl̩ɪŋ ə ˈlɪtl̩. ˈaɪ felt ˈlaɪk ən ˈæmpjuteɪtɪd leɡ.
ˈaɪ tɜːnd ˈsləʊli. ðə kɑː(ɑː) wɒz ɡɒn.

 My stomach took a whirl. I clamped my teeth tight and just managed to keep it down my throat. Cold sweat stood out in lumps on my forehead, but I shivered just the same. I got up on one foot, then on both feet, straightened up, wobbling a little. I felt like an amputated leg.
I turned slowly. The car was gone.

 ðə dɜːt rəʊd stretʃt ˈempti, ˈbæk ʌp ðə ˈʃæləʊ hɪl təˈwɔːdz ðə peɪvd striːt, ðə end əv kəˈmiːnəʊ də lɑː ˈkɒstə. tuː ðə left ðə ˈbæriə(ɑː) əv waɪt-ˈpeɪntɪd fɔː(ɑː)-baɪ-fɔːz stʊd ˈaʊt əˈɡenst ðə ˈdɑːknəs. bɪˈjɒnd ðə ləʊ wɔːl əv brʌʃ ðə peɪl ɡləʊ ɪn ðə skaɪ wʊd bi ðə laɪts əv beɪ ˈsɪti. ənd ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ˈfɑːðə(ɑː) tuː ðə raɪt ənd nɪə(ɑː) baɪ wɜː(ɑː) ðə laɪts əv ðə ˌbelvəˈdɪr klʌb.

 The dirt road stretched empty, back up the shallow hill towards the paved street, the end of Camino de la Costa. To the left the barrier of white-painted four-by-fours stood out against the darkness. Beyond the low wall of brush the pale glow in the sky would be the lights of Bay City. And over farther to the right and near by were the lights of the Belvedere Club.


ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) weə(ɑː) ðə kɑː(ɑː) həd stʊd ənd ˈɡɒt ə ˈfaʊntɪn pen flæʃ unclipped frəm maɪ ˈpɒkɪt ənd pəʊkt ðə ˈlɪtl̩ laɪt daʊn ət ðə ɡraʊnd. ðə sɔɪl wɒz red ləʊm, ˈveri hɑːd ɪn draɪ ˈweðə(r), bʌt ðə ˈweðə(r) wɒz nɒt bəʊn draɪ. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈlɪtl̩ fɒɡ ɪn ðə eə(ɑː), ənd ɪˈnʌf əv ðə ˈmɔɪstʃə(r) həd ˈsetl̩d ɒn ðə ˈsɜːfɪs əv ðə ɡraʊnd tuː ʃəʊ weə(ɑː) ðə kɑː(ɑː) həd stʊd.


I went over where the car had stood and got a fountain pen flash unclipped from my pocket and poked the little light down at the ground. The soil was red loam, very hard in dry weather, but the weather was not bone dry. There was a little fog in the air, and enough of the moisture had settled on the surface of the ground to show where the car had stood.

 ˈaɪ kʊd ˈsiː, ˈveri feɪnt, ðə tred mɑːks əv ðə ˈhevi ten-plaɪ vəʊɡ ˈtaɪəz. ˈaɪ ˈpʊt ðə laɪt ɒn ðem ənd bent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ənd ðə peɪn ˈmeɪd maɪ hed ˈdɪzi. ˈaɪ ˈstɑːtɪd tuː ˈfɒləʊ ðə træks. ˈðeɪ ˈwent streɪt əˈhed fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈdʌzn̩ fiːt, ðen swʌŋ ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː ðə left. ˈðeɪ didn’tiː tɜːn, ˈðeɪ ˈwent təˈwɔːdz ðə ɡæp ət ðə left hænd end əv ðə waɪt ˌbærɪˈkeɪd. ðen ˈaɪ lɒst ðem.

 I could see, very faint, the tread marks of the heavy ten-ply Vogue tires. I put the light on them and bent over and the pain made my head dizzy. I started to follow the tracks. They went straight ahead for a dozen feet, then swung over to the left. They didn’t turn, They went towards the gap at the left hand end of the white barricade. Then I lost them.


ˈaɪ ˈwent ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː ðə ˌbærɪˈkeɪd ənd ʃɒn ðə ˈlɪtl̩ laɪt ɒn ðə brʌʃ. freʃ-ˈbrəʊkən twɪɡz. ˈaɪ ˈwent θruː ðə ɡæp, ɒn daʊn ðə ˈkɜːvɪŋ rəʊd. ðə ɡraʊnd wɒz stɪl ˈsɒftə(ɑː) hɪə(ɑː). mɔː(ɑː) mɑːks əv ðə ˈhevi ˈtaɪəz. ˈaɪ ˈwent ɒn daʊn, ˈraʊndɪd ðə kɜːv ənd wɒz ət ðə edʒ əv ðə ˈhɒləʊ kləʊzd ɪn baɪ brʌʃ.


I went over to the barricade and shone the little light on the brush. Fresh-broken twigs. I went through the gap, on down the curving road. The ground was still softer here. More marks of the heavy tires. I went on down, rounded the curve and was at the edge of the hollow closed in by brush.


ɪt wɒz ðeə(ɑː) ɔːl raɪt, ðə ˈkrəʊmɪəm ənd ˈɡlɒsi peɪnt ˈʃaɪnɪŋ ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈiːvn̩ ɪn ðə dɑːk, ənd ðə red rɪˈflektə(r) ˈɡlɑːs əv ðə teɪl-laɪts ˈʃaɪnɪŋ ˈbæk ət ðə ˈpensl̩ flæʃ. ɪt wɒz ðeə(ɑː), ˈsaɪlənt, lightless, ɔːl ðə dɔːz ʃʌt. ˈaɪ ˈwent təˈwɔːdz ɪt ˈsləʊli, ˈɡrɪtɪŋ maɪ tiːθ ət ˈevri step. ˈaɪ ˈəʊpənd wʌn əv ðə rɪə(ɑː) dɔːz ənd ˈpʊt ðə biːm əv ðə flæʃ ɪnˈsaɪd. ˈempti. ðə frʌnt wɒz ˈempti tuː.


It was there all right, the chromium and glossy paint shining a little even in the dark, and the red reflector glass of the tail-lights shining back at the pencil flash. It was there, silent, lightless, all the doors shut. I went towards it slowly, gritting my teeth at every step. I opened one of the rear doors and put the beam of the flash inside. Empty. The front was empty too.

 ðə ɪɡˈnɪʃn̩ wɒz ɒf. ðə kiː hʌŋ ɪn ðə lɒk ɒn ə θɪn tʃeɪn. nəʊ ˈtɔːn ˌʌpˈhəʊlstəri, nəʊ skɑːd ˈɡlɑːs, nəʊ blʌd, nəʊ ˈbɒdɪz. ˈevrɪθɪŋ niːt ənd ˈɔːdəli. ˈaɪ ʃʌt ðə dɔːz ənd ˈsɜːkl̩d ðə kɑː(ɑː) ˈsləʊli, ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ə saɪn ənd nɒt ˈfaɪndɪŋ ˈeni.
ə ˈsaʊnd frəʊz miː.
ə ˈməʊtə(r) θrɒbd əˈbʌv ðə rɪm əv ðə brʌʃ. ˈaɪ didn’tiː dʒʌmp mɔː(ɑː) ðæn ə fʊt. ðə flæʃ ɪn maɪ hænd ˈwent ˈaʊt.

 The ignition was off. The key hung in the lock on a thin chain. No torn upholstery, no scarred glass, no blood, no bodies. Everything neat and orderly. I shut the doors and circled the car slowly, looking for a sign and not finding any.
A sound froze me.
A motor throbbed above the rim of the brush. I didn’t jump more than a foot. The flash in my hand went out.

 ə ɡʌn slɪd ˈɪntə maɪ hænd ɔːl baɪ ɪtˈself. ðen ˈhedlaɪt biːmz ˈtɪltɪd ʌp təˈwɔːdz ðə skaɪ, ðen ˈtɪltɪd daʊn əˈɡen. ðə ˈməʊtə(r) ˈsaʊndɪd ˈlaɪk ə smɔːl kɑː(ɑː). ɪt həd ðæt kənˈtentɪd ˈsaʊnd ðæt kʌmz wɪð ˈmɔɪstʃə(r) ɪn ðə eə(ɑː).
ðə laɪts ˈtɪltɪd daʊn stɪl mɔː(ɑː) ənd ˈɡɒt ˈbraɪtə(ɑː). ə kɑː(ɑː) wɒz ˈkʌmɪŋ daʊn ðə kɜːv əv ðə dɜːt rəʊd. ɪt keɪm ˈtuː-θɜːdz əv ðə ˈweɪ ənd ðen stɒpt.

 A gun slid into my hand all by itself. Then headlight beams tilted up towards the sky, then tilted down again. The motor sounded like a small car. It had that contented sound that comes with moisture in the air.
The lights tilted down still more and got brighter. A car was coming down the curve of the dirt road. It came two-thirds of the way and then stopped.

 ə ˈspɒtlaɪt klɪkt ɒn ənd swʌŋ ˈaʊt tuː ðə saɪd, held ðeə(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈlɒŋ ˈməʊmənt, ˈwent ˈaʊt əˈɡen. ðə kɑː(ɑː) keɪm ɒn daʊn ðə hɪl. ˈaɪ slɪpt ðə ɡʌn ˈaʊt əv maɪ ˈpɒkɪt ənd kraʊtʃt bɪˈhaɪnd ðə ˈməʊtə(r) əv ˈmeriət’ˈes kɑː(ɑː).
ə smɔːl ˈkuːpeɪ əv nəʊ pəˈtɪkjʊlə(ɑː) ʃeɪp ɔː(ɑː) ˈkʌlər slɪd ˈɪntə ðə ˈhɒləʊ ənd tɜːnd ˈsəʊ ðæt ɪts ˈhedlaɪts reɪkt ðə sɪˈdæn frəm wʌn end tuː ðə ˈʌðə(ɑː). ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt maɪ hed daʊn ɪn ə ˈhʌri.

 A spotlight clicked on and swung out to the side, held there for a long moment, went out again. The car came on down the hill. I slipped the gun out of my pocket and crouched behind the motor of Marriott’s car.
A small coupe of no particular shape or color slid into the hollow and turned so that its headlights raked the sedan from one end to the other. I got my head down in a hurry.

 ðə laɪts swept əˈbʌv miː ˈlaɪk ə sɔːd. ðə ˈkuːpeɪ stɒpt. ðə ˈməʊtə(r) daɪd. ðə ˈhedlaɪts daɪd. ˈsaɪləns. ðen ə dɔː(ɑː) ˈəʊpənd ənd ə laɪt fʊt tʌtʃt ðə ɡraʊnd. mɔː(ɑː) ˈsaɪləns. ˈiːvn̩ ðə ˈkrɪkɪts wɜː(ɑː) ˈsaɪlənt. ðen ə biːm əv laɪt kʌt ðə ˈdɑːknəs ləʊ daʊn, ˈpærəlel tuː ðə ɡraʊnd ənd ˈəʊnli ə fjuː ˈɪntʃɪz əˈbʌv ɪt. ðə biːm swept, ənd ðeə(ɑː) wɒz nəʊ ˈweɪ ˈaɪ kʊd ˈɡet maɪ ˈæŋkl̩z ˈaʊt əv ɪt ˈkwɪkli ɪˈnʌf.

 The lights swept above me like a sword. The coupe stopped. The motor died. The headlights died. Silence. Then a door opened and a light foot touched the ground. More silence. Even the crickets were silent. Then a beam of light cut the darkness low down, parallel to the ground and only a few inches above it. The beam swept, and there was no way I could get my ankles out of it quickly enough.

 ðə biːm stɒpt ɒn maɪ fiːt. ˈsaɪləns. ðə biːm keɪm ʌp ənd reɪkt ðə tɒp əv ðə hʊd əˈɡen.
ðen ə lɑːf. ɪt wɒz ə ɡɜːl’ˈes lɑːf. streɪnd, tɔːt əz ə ˈmændəlɪn ˈwaɪə(ɑː). ə streɪndʒ ˈsaʊnd ɪn ðæt ˈpleɪs. ðə waɪt biːm ʃɒt ˈʌndə(ɑː) ðə kɑː(ɑː) əˈɡen ənd ˈsetl̩d ɒn maɪ fiːt.
ðə vɔɪs ˈsed, nɒt kwaɪt ˈʃrɪli: “ɔːl raɪt, juː. kʌm ˈaʊt əv ðeə(ɑː) wɪð jɔː(ɑː) hændz ʌp ənd ˈveri dæmd ˈempti. juː’riː ˈkʌvəd.

 The beam stopped on my feet. Silence. The beam came up and raked the top of the hood again.
Then a laugh. It was a girl’s laugh. Strained, taut as a mandolin wire. A strange sound in that place. The white beam shot under the car again and settled on my feet.
The voice said, not quite shrilly: “All right, you. Come out of there with your hands up and very damned empty. You’re covered.

”
ˈaɪ didn’tiː muːv.
ðə laɪt ˈweɪvəd ə ˈlɪtl̩, əz ðəʊ ðə hænd ðæt held ɪt ˈweɪvəd. ɪt swept ˈsləʊli əˈlɒŋ ðə hʊd wʌns mɔː(ɑː). ðə vɔɪs stæbd ət miː əˈɡen.
“ˈlɪsn̩, ˈstreɪndʒə(ɑː). ˈaɪ’em ˈhəʊldɪŋ ə ten ʃɒt ˌɔːtəˈmætɪk. ˈaɪ kæn ʃuːt streɪt. bəʊθ jɔː(ɑː) fiːt ə(ɑː) ˈvʌlnərəbl̩. ˈwɒt duː juː bɪd?”
“ˈpʊt ɪt ʌp—ɔː(ɑː) ˈaɪ’laɪnz bləʊ ɪt ˈaʊt əv jɔː(ɑː) hænd!” ˈaɪ snɑːld.

”
I didn’t move.
The light wavered a little, as though the hand that held it wavered. It swept slowly along the hood once more. The voice stabbed at me again.
“Listen, stranger. I’m holding a ten shot automatic. I can shoot straight. Both your feet are vulnerable. What do you bid?”
“Put it up—or I’ll blow it out of your hand!” I snarled.

 maɪ vɔɪs ˈsaʊndɪd ˈlaɪk ˈsʌmbədi ˈteərɪŋ slæts ɒf ə ˈtʃɪkɪn kuːp.
“əʊ—ə hardboiled ˈdʒentlmən.” ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈkweɪvə(r) ɪn ðə vɔɪs, ə naɪs ˈlɪtl̩ ˈkweɪvə(r). ðen ɪt ˈhɑːdn̩d əˈɡen. “ˈkʌmɪŋ ˈaʊt? ˈaɪ’laɪnz kaʊnt θriː. lʊk ət ðə ɒdz ˈaɪ’em ˈɡɪvɪŋ juː—twelv fæt ˈsɪlɪndəz, ˈmeɪbiː sɪkˈstiːn. bʌt jɔː(ɑː) fiːt wɪl hɜːt.

 My voice sounded like somebody tearing slats off a chicken coop.
“Oh—a hardboiled gentleman.” There was a quaver in the voice, a nice little quaver. Then it hardened again. “Coming out? I’ll count three. Look at the odds I’m giving you—twelve fat cylinders, maybe sixteen. But your feet will hurt.

 ənd ˈæŋkl̩ bəʊnz teɪk ˈjiəz ənd ˈjiəz tuː ˈɡet wel ənd ˈsʌmtaɪmz ˈðeɪ ˈnevə(ɑː) duː ˈrɪəli—“
ˈaɪ ˈstreɪtn̩d ʌp ˈsləʊli ənd lʊkt ˈɪntə ðə biːm əv ðə ˈflæʃlaɪt.
“ˈaɪ ˈtɔːk tuː ˈmʌtʃ wen ˈaɪ’em skeəd tuː,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.
“dɒn’tiː—dɒn’tiː muːv əˈnʌðə(ɑː) ɪntʃ! huː ə(ɑː) juː?”
ˈaɪ muːvd əˈraʊnd ðə frʌnt əv ðə kɑː(ɑː) təˈwɔːdz hɜː(ɑː). wen ˈaɪ wɒz sɪks fiːt frəm ðə slɪm dɑːk ˈfɪɡə(ɑː) bɪˈhaɪnd ðə flæʃ ˈaɪ stɒpt.

 And ankle bones take years and years to get well and sometimes they never do really—“
I straightened up slowly and looked into the beam of the flashlight.
“I talk too much when I’m scared too,” I said.
“Don’t—don’t move another inch! Who are you?”
I moved around the front of the car towards her. When I was six feet from the slim dark figure behind the flash I stopped.

 ðə flæʃ ɡleəd ət miː ˈstedɪli.
“juː steɪ raɪt ðeə(ɑː),” ðə ɡɜːl snæpt anɡrəli, ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ˈaɪ həd stɒpt. “huː ə(ɑː) juː?”
“let’ˈes ˈsiː jɔː(ɑː) ɡʌn.”
ʃiː held ɪt ˈfɔːwəd ˈɪntə ðə laɪt. ɪt wɒz ˈpɔɪntɪd ət maɪ ˈstʌmək. ɪt wɒz ə ˈlɪtl̩ ɡʌn, ɪt lʊkt ˈlaɪk ə smɔːl kəʊlt vest ˈpɒkɪt ˌɔːtəˈmætɪk.
“əʊ, ðæt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ðæt tɔɪ. ɪt doesn’tiː ˈaɪðə(ɑː) həʊld ten ʃɒts. ɪt həʊldz sɪks.

 The flash glared at me steadily.
“You stay right there,” the girl snapped angrily, after I had stopped. “Who are you?”
“Let’s see your gun.”
She held it forward into the light. It was pointed at my stomach. It was a little gun, it looked like a small Colt vest pocket automatic.
“Oh, that,” I said. “That toy. It doesn’t either hold ten shots. It holds six.

 ɪt’ˈes dʒəst ə ˈlɪtl̩ ɡʌn, ə ˈbʌtəflaɪ ɡʌn. ˈðeɪ ʃuːt ˈbʌtəflaɪz wɪð ðem. ʃeɪm ɒn juː fɔː(ɑː) ˈtelɪŋ ə dɪˈlɪbəreɪt laɪ ˈlaɪk ðæt.”
“ə(ɑː) juː ˈkreɪzi?”
“miː? ˈaɪ’ˈviː biːn sæpt baɪ ə ˈhəʊldʌp mæn. ˈaɪ maɪt bi ə ˈlɪtl̩ ˈɡuːfi.”
“ɪz ðæt—ɪz ðæt jɔː(ɑː) kɑː(ɑː)?”
“huː ə(ɑː) juː?”
“ˈwɒt wɜː(ɑː) juː ˈlʊkɪŋ ət ˈbæk ðeə(ɑː) wɪð jɔː(ɑː) ˈspɒtlaɪt?”
“ˈaɪ ˈɡet ɪt. juː ɑːsk ðə ˈɑːnsəz. hiː-mæn stʌf. ˈaɪ wɒz ˈlʊkɪŋ ət ə mæn.

 It’s just a little gun, a butterfly gun. They shoot butterflies with them. Shame on you for telling a deliberate lie like that.”
“Are you crazy?”
“Me? I’ve been sapped by a holdup man. I might be a little goofy.”
“Is that—is that your car?”
“Who are you?”
“What were you looking at back there with your spotlight?”
“I get it. You ask the answers. He-man stuff. I was looking at a man.

”
“dʌz hiː həv blɒnd heə(ɑː) ɪn weɪvz?”
“nɒt naʊ,” ʃiː ˈsed ˈkwaɪətli. “hiː maɪt həv həd—wʌns.”
ðæt dʒɑːd miː. ˈsʌmhaʊ ˈaɪ hadn’tiː ɪkˈspektɪd ɪt. “ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈsiː hɪm,” ˈaɪ ˈsed ˈleɪmli. “ˈaɪ wɒz ˈfɒləʊɪŋ ðə ˈtaɪə(r) mɑːks wɪð ə ˈflæʃlaɪt daʊn ðə hɪl. ɪz hiː ˈbædli hɜːt?” ˈaɪ ˈwent əˈnʌðə(ɑː) step təˈwɔːdz hɜː(ɑː). ðə ˈlɪtl̩ ɡʌn dʒʌmpt ət miː ənd ðə flæʃ held ˈstedi.
“teɪk ɪt ˈiːzi,” ʃiː ˈsed ˈkwaɪətli. “ˈveri ˈiːzi.

”
“Does he have blond hair in waves?”
“Not now,” she said quietly. “He might have had—once.”
That jarred me. Somehow I hadn’t expected it. “I didn’t see him,” I said lamely. “I was following the tire marks with a flashlight down the hill. Is he badly hurt?” I went another step towards her. The little gun jumped at me and the flash held steady.
“Take it easy,” she said quietly. “Very easy.

 jɔː(ɑː) ˈfrend ɪz ded.”
ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈseɪ ˈeniθɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈməʊmənt. ðen ˈaɪ ˈsed: “ɔːl raɪt, let’ˈes ɡəʊ lʊk ət hɪm.”
“let’ˈes stænd raɪt hɪə(ɑː) ənd nɒt muːv ənd juː tel miː huː juː ə(ɑː) ənd ˈwɒt ˈhæpənd.” ðə vɔɪs wɒz krɪsp. ɪt wɒz nɒt əˈfreɪd. ɪt ment ˈwɒt ɪt ˈsed.
“ˈmɑːˌləʊ. ˈfɪlɪp ˈmɑːˌləʊ. ən ɪnˈvestɪɡeɪtə(r). ˈpraɪvɪt.”
“ðæt’ˈes huː juː ə(ɑː)—ɪf ɪt’ˈes truː. pruːv ɪt.”
“ˈaɪ’em ˈɡəʊɪŋ tuː teɪk maɪ ˈwɒlɪt ˈaʊt.

 Your friend is dead.”
I didn’t say anything for a moment. Then I said: “All right, let’s go look at him.”
“Let’s stand right here and not move and you tell me who you are and what happened.” The voice was crisp. It was not afraid. It meant what it said.
“Marlowe. Philip Marlowe. An investigator. Private.”
“That’s who you are—if it’s true. Prove it.”
“I’m going to take my wallet out.

”
“ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː ˈθɪŋk ˈsəʊ. dʒəst liːv jɔː(ɑː) hændz weə(ɑː) ˈðeɪ ˈhæpən tuː bi. wiː’laɪnz skɪp ðə pruːf fɔː(ɑː) ðə ˈtaɪm ˈbiːɪŋ. ˈwɒt’ˈes jɔː(ɑː) ˈstɔːri?”
“ðɪs mæn meɪ nɒt bi ded.”
“hiː’ˈes ded ɔːl raɪt. wɪð hɪz breɪnz ɒn hɪz feɪs. ðə ˈstɔːri, ˈmɪstə(r). ˈmeɪk ɪt fɑːst.”
“əz ˈaɪ ˈsed—hiː meɪ nɒt bi ded. wiː’laɪnz ɡəʊ lʊk ət hɪm.” ˈaɪ muːvd wʌn fʊt ˈfɔːwəd.
“muːv ənd ˈaɪ’laɪnz drɪl juː!” ʃiː snæpt.
ˈaɪ muːvd ðə ˈʌðə(ɑː) fʊt ˈfɔːwəd.

”
“I don’t think so. Just leave your hands where they happen to be. We’ll skip the proof for the time being. What’s your story?”
“This man may not be dead.”
“He’s dead all right. With his brains on his face. The story, mister. Make it fast.”
“As I said—he may not be dead. We’ll go look at him.” I moved one foot forward.
“Move and I’ll drill you!” she snapped.
I moved the other foot forward.

 ðə flæʃ dʒʌmpt əˈbaʊt ə ˈlɪtl̩. ˈaɪ ˈθɪŋk ʃiː tʊk ə step ˈbæk.
“juː teɪk sʌm ˈɔːfl̩ ˈtʃɑːnsɪz, ˈmɪstə(r),” ʃiː ˈsed ˈkwaɪətli. “ɔːl raɪt, ɡəʊ ɒn əˈhed ənd ˈaɪ’laɪnz ˈfɒləʊ. juː lʊk ˈlaɪk ə sɪk mæn. ɪf ɪt hadn’tiː biːn fɔː(ɑː) ðæt—“
“juː’diː həv ʃɒt miː. ˈaɪ’ˈviː biːn sæpt. ɪt ˈɔːlweɪz ˈmeɪks miː ə ˈlɪtl̩ dɑːk ˈʌndə(ɑː) ðə aɪz.”
“ə naɪs sens əv ˈhjuːmə(ɑː)—ˈlaɪk ə mɔːɡ əˈtendənt,” ʃiː ˈɔːlməʊst weɪld.

 The flash jumped about a little. I think she took a step back.
“You take some awful chances, mister,” she said quietly. “All right, go on ahead and I’ll follow. You look like a sick man. If it hadn’t been for that—“
“You’d have shot me. I’ve been sapped. It always makes me a little dark under the eyes.”
“A nice sense of humor—like a morgue attendant,” she almost wailed.


ˈaɪ tɜːnd əˈweɪ frəm ðə laɪt ənd ɪˈmiːdɪətli ɪt ʃɒn ɒn ðə ɡraʊnd ɪn frʌnt əv miː. ˈaɪ ˈwɔːkt pɑːst ðə ˈlɪtl̩ kuː, ən ˈɔːdɪnri ˈlɪtl̩ kɑː(ɑː), kliːn ənd ˈʃaɪni ˈʌndə(ɑː) ðə ˈmɪsti ˈstɑːlaɪt. ˈaɪ ˈwent ɒn, ʌp ðə dɜːt rəʊd, əˈraʊnd ðə kɜːv. ðə steps wɜː(ɑː) kləʊz bɪˈhaɪnd miː ənd ðə ˈflæʃlaɪt ˈɡaɪdɪd miː. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz nəʊ ˈsaʊnd ˈeniweə(ɑː) naʊ ɪkˈsept ˈaʊə(ɑː) steps ənd ðə ɡɜːl’ˈes ˈbriːðɪŋ. ˈaɪ didn’tiː hɪə(ɑː) maɪn.


I turned away from the light and immediately it shone on the ground in front of me. I walked past the little coup, an ordinary little car, clean and shiny under the misty starlight. I went on, up the dirt road, around the curve. The steps were close behind me and the flashlight guided me. There was no sound anywhere now except our steps and the girl’s breathing. I didn’t hear mine.





11
hɑːfˈweɪ ʌp ðə sləʊp ˈaɪ lʊkt ɒf tuː ðə raɪt ənd ˈsɔː hɪz fʊt. ʃiː swʌŋ ðə laɪt. ðen ˈaɪ ˈsɔː ɔːl əv hɪm. ˈaɪ ˈɔːt tuː həv ˈsiːn hɪm əz ˈaɪ keɪm daʊn, bʌt ˈaɪ həd biːn bent ˈəʊvə(ɑː), ˈpɪərɪŋ ət ðə ɡraʊnd wɪð ðə ˈfaʊntɪn pen flæʃ, ˈtraɪɪŋ tuː riːd ˈtaɪə(r) mɑːks baɪ ə laɪt ðə saɪz əv ə ˈkwɔːtə(r).
“ɡɪv miː ðə flæʃ,” ˈaɪ ˈsed ənd riːtʃt ˈbæk.
ʃiː ˈpʊt ɪt ˈɪntə maɪ hænd, wɪðˈaʊt ə ˈwɜːd.

11
Halfway up the slope I looked off to the right and saw his foot. She swung the light. Then I saw all of him. I ought to have seen him as I came down, but I had been bent over, peering at the ground with the fountain pen flash, trying to read tire marks by a light the size of a quarter.
“Give me the flash,” I said and reached back.
She put it into my hand, without a word.

 ˈaɪ ˈwent daʊn ɒn ə niː. ðə ɡraʊnd felt kəʊld ənd dæmp θruː ðə klɒθ.
hiː leɪ smɪəd tuː ðə ɡraʊnd, ɒn hɪz ˈbæk, ət ðə beɪs əv ə bʊʃ, ɪn ðæt bæɡ-əv-kləʊðz pəˈzɪʃn̩ ðæt ˈɔːlweɪz miːnz ðə seɪm ˈθɪŋ. hɪz feɪs wɒz ə feɪs ˈaɪ həd ˈnevə(ɑː) ˈsiːn bɪˈfɔː(ɑː). hɪz heə(ɑː) wɒz dɑːk wɪð blʌd, ðə ˈbjuːtəfl̩ blɒnd ˈledʒɪz wɜː(ɑː) ˈtæŋɡl̩d-wɪð blʌd ənd sʌm θɪk ˈɡreɪɪʃ uːz, ˈlaɪk praɪˈmiːvl̩ slaɪm.

 I went down on a knee. The ground felt cold and damp through the cloth.
He lay smeared to the ground, on his back, at the base of a bush, in that bag-of-clothes position that always means the same thing. His face was a face I had never seen before. His hair was dark with blood, the beautiful blond ledges were tangled-with blood and some thick grayish ooze, like primeval slime.


ðə ɡɜːl bɪˈhaɪnd miː briːðd hɑːd, bʌt ʃiː didn’tiː spiːk. ˈaɪ held ðə laɪt ɒn hɪz feɪs. hiː həd biːn ˈbiːtn̩ tuː ə pʌlp. wʌn əv hɪz hændz wɒz flʌŋ ˈaʊt ɪn ə ˈfrəʊzən ˈdʒestʃə(ɑː), ðə ˈfɪŋɡəz kɜːld. hɪz ˈəʊvəkəʊt wɒz hɑːf ˈtwɪstɪd ˈʌndə(ɑː) hɪm, əz ðəʊ hiː həd rəʊld əz hiː fel. hɪz leɡz wɜː(ɑː) krɒst. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈtrɪkl̩ əz blæk əz ˈdɜːti ɔɪl ət ðə ˈkɔːnə(ɑː) əv hɪz maʊθ.


The girl behind me breathed hard, but she didn’t speak. I held the light on his face. He had been beaten to a pulp. One of his hands was flung out in a frozen gesture, the fingers curled. His overcoat was half twisted under him, as though he had rolled as he fell. His legs were crossed. There was a trickle as black as dirty oil at the corner of his mouth.


“həʊld ðə flæʃ ɒn hɪm,” ˈaɪ ˈsed, ˈpɑːsɪŋ ɪt ˈbæk tuː hɜː(ɑː). “ɪf ɪt doesn’tiː ˈmeɪk juː sɪk.”
ʃiː tʊk ɪt ənd held ɪt wɪðˈaʊt ə ˈwɜːd, əz ˈstedi əz ən əʊld ˈhɒmɪsaɪd ˈvetərən. ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt maɪ ˈfaʊntɪn pen flæʃ ˈaʊt əˈɡen ənd ˈstɑːtɪd tuː ɡəʊ θruː hɪz ˈpɒkɪts, ˈtraɪɪŋ nɒt tuː muːv hɪm.
“juː shouldn’tiː duː ðæt,” ʃiː ˈsed ˈtensli. “juː shouldn’tiː tʌtʃ hɪm ʌnˈtɪl ðə pəˈliːs kʌm.”
“ðæt’ˈes raɪt,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.


“Hold the flash on him,” I said, passing it back to her. “If it doesn’t make you sick.”
She took it and held it without a word, as steady as an old homicide veteran. I got my fountain pen flash out again and started to go through his pockets, trying not to move him.
“You shouldn’t do that,” she said tensely. “You shouldn’t touch him until the police come.”
“That’s right,” I said.

 “ənd ðə praʊl kɑː(ɑː) ˈbɔɪz ə(ɑː) nɒt səˈpəʊzd tuː tʌtʃ hɪm ʌnˈtɪl ðə keɪ-kɑː(ɑː) men kʌm ənd ˈðeɪ’riː nɒt səˈpəʊzd tuː tʌtʃ hɪm ʌnˈtɪl ðə ˈkɒrənə(ɑː)’ˈes ɪɡˈzæmɪnə(ɑː) ˈsiːz hɪm ənd ðə fəˈtɒɡrəfəz həv ˈfəʊtəɡrɑːft hɪm ənd ðə ˈfɪŋɡəprɪnt mæn hæz ˈteɪkən hɪz prɪnts. ənd duː juː nəʊ ˈhaʊ ˈlɒŋ ɔːl ðæt ɪz ˈlaɪəbl̩ tuː teɪk ˈaʊt hɪə(ɑː)? ə ˈkʌpl̩ əv ˈaʊəz.”
“ɔːl raɪt,” ʃiː ˈsed. “ˈaɪ səˈpəʊz juː’riː ˈɔːlweɪz raɪt.

 “And the prowl car boys are not supposed to touch him until the K-car men come and they’re not supposed to touch him until the coroner’s examiner sees him and the photographers have photographed him and the fingerprint man has taken his prints. And do you know how long all that is liable to take out here? A couple of hours.”
“All right,” she said. “I suppose you’re always right.

 ˈaɪ ɡes juː mʌst bi ðæt kaɪnd əv ˈpɜːsn̩. ˈsʌmbədi mʌst həv ˈheɪtɪd hɪm tuː smæʃ hɪz hed ɪn ˈlaɪk ðæt.”
“ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː səˈpəʊz ɪt wɒz ˈpɜːsənl̩,” ˈaɪ ɡraʊld. “sʌm ˈpiːpl̩ dʒəst ˈlaɪk tuː smæʃ hedz.”
“ˈsiːɪŋ ðæt ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː nəʊ ˈwɒt ɪt’ˈes ɔːl əˈbaʊt, ˈaɪ couldn’tiː ɡes,” ʃiː ˈsed ˈtɑːtli.
ˈaɪ ˈwent θruː hɪz kləʊðz.

 I guess you must be that kind of person. Somebody must have hated him to smash his head in like that.”
“I don’t suppose it was personal,” I growled. “Some people just like to smash heads.”
“Seeing that I don’t know what it’s all about, I couldn’t guess,” she said tartly.
I went through his clothes.

 hiː həd luːs ˈsɪlvə(ɑː) ənd bɪlz ɪn wʌn ˈtraʊzə(r) ˈpɒkɪt, ə tuːld ˈleðə(r) keycase ɪn ðə ˈʌðə(ɑː), ˈɔːlsəʊ ə smɔːl naɪf. hɪz left hɪp ˈpɒkɪt ˈjiːldɪd ə smɔːl ˈbɪlfəʊld wɪð mɔː(ɑː) ˈkʌrənsi, ɪnˈʃʊərəns kɑːdz, ə ˈdraɪvə(ɑː)’ˈes ˈlaɪsns, ə ˈkʌpl̩ əv rɪˈsiːts. ɪn hɪz ˈkəʊt luːs mætʃ ˈfəʊldəz, ə ɡəʊld ˈpensl̩ klɪpt tuː ə ˈpɒkɪt, ˈtuː θɪn ˈkeɪmbrɪk handerchiefs əz faɪn ənd waɪt əz draɪ ˈpaʊdəd snəʊ.

 He had loose silver and bills in one trouser pocket, a tooled leather keycase in the other, also a small knife. His left hip pocket yielded a small billfold with more currency, insurance cards, a driver’s license, a couple of receipts. In his coat loose match folders, a gold pencil clipped to a pocket, two thin cambric handerchiefs as fine and white as dry powdered snow.

 ðen ðə ɪˈnæml̩ ˌsɪɡəˈret keɪs frəm wɪtʃ ˈaɪ həd ˈsiːn hɪm teɪk hɪz braʊn ɡəʊld-tɪpt ˌsɪɡəˈrets. ˈðeɪ wɜː(ɑː) saʊθ əˈmerɪkən, frəm ˌmɒntɪvɪˈdeɪəʊ. ənd ɪn ðə ˈʌðə(ɑː) ɪnˈsaɪd ˈpɒkɪt ə ˈsekənd ˌsɪɡəˈret keɪs ˈaɪ hadn’tiː ˈsiːn bɪˈfɔː(ɑː). ɪt wɒz ˈmeɪd əv ɪmˈbroɪdəd sɪlk, ə ˈdræɡən ɒn iːtʃ saɪd, ə freɪm əv ˌɪmɪˈteɪʃn̩ ˈtɔːtəs ʃel ˈsəʊ θɪn ɪt wɒz ˈhɑːdli ðeə(ɑː) ət ɔːl.

 Then the enamel cigarette case from which I had seen him take his brown gold-tipped cigarettes. They were South American, from Montevideo. And in the other inside pocket a second cigarette case I hadn’t seen before. It was made of embroidered silk, a dragon on each side, a frame of imitation tortoiseshell so thin it was hardly there at all.

 ˈaɪ ˈtɪkl̩d ðə kætʃ ˈəʊpən ənd lʊkt ɪn ət θriː ˈəʊvəsaɪzd ˈrʌʃən ˌsɪɡəˈrets ˈʌndə(ɑː) ðə bænd əv ɪˈlæstɪk. ˈaɪ pɪntʃt wʌn. ˈðeɪ felt əʊld ənd draɪ ənd luːs. ˈðeɪ həd ˈhɒləʊ ˈmaʊθpiːsɪz.
“hiː sməʊkt ðə ˈʌðəz,” ˈaɪ ˈsed ˈəʊvə(ɑː) maɪ ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː). “ðiːz mʌst həv biːn fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈleɪdi ˈfrend. hiː wʊd bi ə læd huː wʊd həv ə lɒt əv ˈleɪdi frendz.”
ðə ɡɜːl wɒz bent ˈəʊvə(ɑː), ˈbriːðɪŋ ɒn maɪ nek naʊ.

 I tickled the catch open and looked in at three oversized Russian cigarettes under the band of elastic. I pinched one. They felt old and dry and loose. They had hollow mouthpieces.
“He smoked the others,” I said over my shoulder. “These must have been for a lady friend. He would be a lad who would have a lot of lady friends.”
The girl was bent over, breathing on my neck now.

 “Didn’tiː juː nəʊ hɪm?”
“ˈaɪ ˈəʊnli met hɪm təˈnaɪt. hiː ˈhaɪəd miː fɔː(ɑː) ə bodyguasd.”
“sʌm ˈbɒdɪɡɑːd.”
ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈseɪ ˈeniθɪŋ tuː ðæt.
“ˈaɪ’em ˈsɒri,” ʃiː ˈɔːlməʊst ˈwɪspəd. “əv kɔːs ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː nəʊ ðə ˈsɜːkəmstənsɪz. duː juː səˈpəʊz ðəʊz kʊd bi ˈdʒuːdʒuːz? kæn ˈaɪ lʊk?”
ˈaɪ pɑːst ðə ɪmˈbroɪdəd keɪs ˈbæk tuː hɜː(ɑː).
“ˈaɪ njuː ə ɡaɪ wʌns huː sməʊkt ˈdʒuːdʒuːz,” ʃiː ˈsed.

 “Didn’t you know him?”
“I only met him tonight. He hired me for a bodyguasd.”
“Some bodyguard.”
I didn’t say anything to that.
“I’m sorry,” she almost whispered. “Of course I don’t know the circumstances. Do you suppose those could be jujus? Can I look?”
I passed the embroidered case back to her.
“I knew a guy once who smoked jujus,” she said.

 “θriː ˈhaɪbɔːlz ənd θriː stɪks əv tiː ənd ɪt tʊk ə paɪp rentʃ tuː ˈɡet hɪm ɒf ðə ˌʃændəˈlɪə(ɑː).”
“həʊld ðə laɪt ˈstedi.”
ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈrʌsl̩ɪŋ pɔːz. ðen ʃiː spəʊk əˈɡen.
“ˈaɪ’em ˈsɒri.” ʃiː ˈhændɪd ðə keɪs daʊn əˈɡen ənd ˈaɪ slɪpt ɪt ˈbæk ɪn hɪz ˈpɒkɪt. ðæt siːmd tuː bi ɔːl. ɔːl ɪt pruːvd wɒz ðæt hiː hadn’tiː biːn kliːnd ˈaʊt.
ˈaɪ stʊd ʌp ənd tʊk maɪ ˈwɒlɪt ˈaʊt.

 “Three highballs and three sticks of tea and it took a pipe wrench to get him off the chandelier.”
“Hold the light steady.”
There was a rustling pause. Then she spoke again.
“I’m sorry.” She handed the case down again and I slipped it back in his pocket. That seemed to be all. All it proved was that he hadn’t been cleaned out.
I stood up and took my wallet out.

 ðə faɪv ˈtwentɪz wɜː(ɑː) stɪl ɪn ɪt.
“haɪ klɑːs ˈbɔɪz,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ˈðeɪ ˈəʊnli tʊk ðə lɑːdʒ ˈmʌni.”
ðə flæʃ wɒz ˈdruːpɪŋ tuː ðə ɡraʊnd. ˈaɪ ˈpʊt maɪ ˈwɒlɪt əˈweɪ əˈɡen, klɪpt maɪ əʊn smɔːl flæʃ tuː maɪ ˈpɒkɪt ənd riːtʃt sʌdn̩li fɔː(ɑː) ðə ˈlɪtl̩ ɡʌn ʃiː wɒz stɪl ˈhəʊldɪŋ ɪn ðə seɪm hænd wɪð ðə ˈflæʃlaɪt. ʃiː drɒpt ðə ˈflæʃlaɪt, bʌt ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt ðə ɡʌn.

 The five twenties were still in it.
“High class boys,” I said. “They only took the large money.”
The flash was drooping to the ground. I put my wallet away again, clipped my own small flash to my pocket and reached suddenly for the little gun she was still holding in the same hand with the flashlight. She dropped the flashlight, but I got the gun.

 ʃiː stept ˈbæk ˈkwɪkli ənd ˈaɪ riːtʃt daʊn fɔː(ɑː) ðə laɪt. ˈaɪ ˈpʊt ɪt ɒn hɜː(ɑː) feɪs fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈməʊmənt, ðen snæpt ɪt ɒf.
“juː didn’tiː həv tuː bi rʌf,” ʃiː ˈsed, ˈpʊtɪŋ hɜː(ɑː) hændz daʊn ˈɪntə ðə ˈpɒkɪts əv ə ˈlɒŋ rʌf ˈkəʊt wɪð ˈfleərɪŋ ˈʃəʊldəz. “ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈθɪŋk juː kɪld hɪm.”
ˈaɪ ˈlaɪkt ðə kuːl ˈkwaɪət əv hɜː(ɑː) vɔɪs. ˈaɪ ˈlaɪkt hɜː(ɑː) nɜːv.

 She stepped back quickly and I reached down for the light. I put it on her face for a moment, then snapped it off.
“You didn’t have to be rough,” she said, putting her hands down into the pockets of a long rough coat with flaring shoulders. “I didn’t think you killed him.”
I liked the cool quiet of her voice. I liked her nerve.

 wiː stʊd ɪn ðə ˈdɑːknəs, feɪs tuː feɪs, nɒt ˈseɪɪŋ ˈeniθɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈməʊmənt. ˈaɪ kʊd ˈsiː ðə brʌʃ ənd laɪt ɪn ðə skaɪ.
ˈaɪ ˈpʊt ðə laɪt ɒn hɜː(ɑː) feɪs ənd ʃiː blɪŋkt. ɪt wɒz ə smɔːl niːt ˈvaɪbrənt feɪs wɪð lɑːdʒ aɪz. ə feɪs wɪð bəʊn ˈʌndə(ɑː) ðə skɪn, faɪn drɔːn ˈlaɪk ə Cremona ˌvaɪəˈlɪn. ə ˈveri naɪs feɪs.
“jɔː(ɑː) heə(ɑː)’ˈes red,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “juː lʊk ˈaɪrɪʃ.”
“ənd maɪ ˈneɪm’ˈes ˈrɪrdən. ˈsəʊ ˈwɒt? ˈpʊt ðæt laɪt ˈaʊt.

 We stood in the darkness, face to face, not saying anything for a moment. I could see the brush and light in the sky.
I put the light on her face and she blinked. It was a small neat vibrant face with large eyes. A face with bone under the skin, fine drawn like a Cremona violin. A very nice face.
“Your hair’s red,” I said. “You look Irish.”
“And my name’s Riordan. So what? Put that light out.

 ɪt’ˈes nɒt red, ɪt’ˈes ˈɔːbən.”
ˈaɪ ˈpʊt ɪt ˈaʊt. “ˈwɒt’ˈes jɔː(ɑː) ˈfɜːst ˈneɪm?”
“æn. ənd dɒn’tiː kɔːl miː ˈæni.”
“ˈwɒt ə(ɑː) juː ˈduːɪŋ əˈraʊnd hɪə(ɑː)?”
“ˈsʌmtaɪmz ət naɪt ˈaɪ ɡəʊ ˈraɪdɪŋ. dʒəst ˈrestləs. ˈaɪ laɪv əˈləʊn. ˈaɪ’em ən ˈɔːfn̩. ˈaɪ nəʊ ɔːl ðɪs ˈneɪbərˌhʊd ˈlaɪk ə bʊk. ˈaɪ dʒəst ˈhæpənd tuː bi ˈraɪdɪŋ əˈlɒŋ ənd ˈnəʊtɪst ə laɪt ˈflɪkərɪŋ daʊn ɪn ðə ˈhɒləʊ. ɪt siːmd ə ˈlɪtl̩ kəʊld fɔː(ɑː) ˈlʌv.

 It’s not red, it’s auburn.”
I put it out. “What’s your first name?”
“Anne. And don’t call me Annie.”
“What are you doing around here?”
“Sometimes at night I go riding. Just restless. I live alone. I’m an orphan. I know all this neighborhood like a book. I just happened to be riding along and noticed a light flickering down in the hollow. It seemed a little cold for love.

 ənd ˈðeɪ dɒn’tiː ˈjuːs laɪts, duː ˈðeɪ?”
“ˈaɪ ˈnevə(ɑː) dɪd. juː teɪk sʌm ˈɔːfl̩ ˈtʃɑːnsɪz, mɪs ˈrɪrdən.”
“ˈaɪ ˈθɪŋk ˈaɪ ˈsed ðə seɪm əˈbaʊt juː. ˈaɪ həd ə ɡʌn. ˈaɪ wasn’tiː əˈfreɪd. ðeə(ɑː)’ˈes nəʊ lɔː əˈɡenst ˈɡəʊɪŋ daʊn ðeə(ɑː).”
“ˈə-hʌ. ˈəʊnli ðə lɔː əv self ˌprezəˈveɪʃn̩. hɪə(ɑː). ɪt’ˈes nɒt maɪ naɪt tuː bi ˈklevə(ɑː). ˈaɪ səˈpəʊz juː həv ə pəˈmɪt fɔː(ɑː) ðə ɡʌn.” ˈaɪ held ɪt ˈaʊt tuː hɜː(ɑː), bʌt ˈfɜːst.

 And they don’t use lights, do they?”
“I never did. You take some awful chances, Miss Riordan.”
“I think I said the same about you. I had a gun. I wasn’t afraid. There’s no law against going down there.”
“Uh-huh. Only the law of self preservation. Here. It’s not my night to be clever. I suppose you have a permit for the gun.” I held it out to her, butt first.


ʃiː tʊk ɪt ənd tʌkt ɪt daʊn ˈɪntə hɜː(ɑː) ˈpɒkɪt. “streɪndʒ ˈhaʊ ˈkjʊərɪəs ˈpiːpl̩ kæn bi, isn’tiː ɪt? ˈaɪ ˈraɪt ə ˈlɪtl̩. ˈfiːtʃə(ɑː) ˈɑːtɪkl̩z.”
“ˈeni ˈmʌni ɪn ɪt?”
“ˈveri dæmd ˈlɪtl̩. ˈwɒt wɜː(ɑː) juː ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔː(ɑː)—ɪn hɪz ˈpɒkɪts?”
“ˈnʌθɪŋ ɪn pəˈtɪkjʊlə(ɑː). ˈaɪ’em ə ˈɡreɪt ɡaɪ tuː snuːp əˈraʊnd. wiː həd eɪt ˈθaʊzn̩d ˈdɒləz tuː baɪ ˈbæk sʌm ˈstəʊlən ˈdʒuːəlri fɔː(ɑː) ə ˈleɪdi. wiː ˈɡɒt ˈhaɪdʒækt. waɪ ˈðeɪ kɪld hɪm ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː nəʊ.


She took it and tucked it down into her pocket. “Strange how curious people can be, isn’t it? I write a little. Feature articles.”
“Any money in it?”
“Very damned little. What were you looking for—in his pockets?”
“Nothing in particular. I’m a great guy to snoop around. We had eight thousand dollars to buy back some stolen jewelry for a lady. We got hijacked. Why they killed him I don’t know.

 hiː didn’tiː straɪk miː əz ə ˈfeləʊ huː wʊd ˈpʊt ʌp ˈmʌtʃ əv ə faɪt. ənd ˈaɪ didn’tiː hɪə(ɑː) ə faɪt. ˈaɪ wɒz daʊn ɪn ðə ˈhɒləʊ wen hiː wɒz dʒʌmpt. hiː wɒz ɪn ðə kɑː(ɑː), ʌp əˈbʌv. wiː wɜː(ɑː) səˈpəʊzd tuː draɪv daʊn ˈɪntə ðə ˈhɒləʊ bʌt ðeə(ɑː) didn’tiː siːm tuː bi ruːm fɔː(ɑː) ðə kɑː(ɑː) wɪðˈaʊt ˈskrætʃɪŋ ɪt ʌp. ˈsəʊ ˈaɪ ˈwent daʊn ðeə(ɑː) ɒn fʊt ənd waɪl ˈaɪ wɒz daʊn ðeə(ɑː) ˈðeɪ mʌst həv stʌk hɪm ʌp.

 He didn’t strike me as a fellow who would put up much of a fight. And I didn’t hear a fight. I was down in the hollow when he was jumped. He was in the car, up above. We were supposed to drive down into the hollow but there didn’t seem to be room for the car without scratching it up. So I went down there on foot and while I was down there they must have stuck him up.

 ðen wʌn əv ðem ˈɡɒt ˈɪntə ðə kɑː(ɑː) ənd draɪ-guiched miː. ˈaɪ ˈθɔːt hiː wɒz stɪl ɪn ðə kɑː(ɑː), əv kɔːs.”
“ðæt doesn’tiː ˈmeɪk juː ˈsəʊ ˈterəbli dʌm,” ʃiː ˈsed.
“ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ˈsʌmθɪŋ rɒŋ wɪð ðə dʒɒb frəm ðə stɑːt. ˈaɪ kʊd fiːl ɪt. bʌt ˈaɪ ˈniːdɪd ðə ˈmʌni. naʊ ˈaɪ həv tuː ɡəʊ tuː ðə kɒps ənd iːt dɜːt. wɪl juː draɪv miː tuː Montemar ˈvɪstə? ˈaɪ left maɪ kɑː(ɑː) ðeə(ɑː). hiː lɪvd ðeə(ɑː).”
“ʃʊə(ɑː).

 Then one of them got into the car and dry-guiched me. I thought he was still in the car, of course.”
“That doesn’t make you so terribly dumb,” she said.
“There was something wrong with the job from the start. I could feel it. But I needed the money. Now I have to go to the cops and eat dirt. Will you drive me to Montemar Vista? I left my car there. He lived there.”
“Sure.

 bʌt shouldn’tiː ˈsʌmbədi steɪ wɪð hɪm? juː kʊd teɪk maɪ kɑː(ɑː)—ɔː(ɑː) ˈaɪ kʊd ɡəʊ kɔːl ðə kɒps.”
ˈaɪ lʊkt ət ðə ˈdaɪəl əv maɪ wɒtʃ. ðə ˈfeɪntli ˈɡləʊɪŋ hændz ˈsed ðæt ɪt wɒz ˈɡetɪŋ təˈwɔːdz ˈmɪdnaɪt.
“nəʊ.”
“waɪ nɒt?”
“ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː nəʊ waɪ nɒt. ˈaɪ dʒəst fiːl ɪt ðæt ˈweɪ. ˈaɪ’laɪnz ˈpleɪ ɪt əˈləʊn.”
ʃiː ˈsed ˈnʌθɪŋ.

 But shouldn’t somebody stay with him? You could take my car—or I could go call the cops.”
I looked at the dial of my watch. The faintly glowing hands said that it was getting towards midnight.
“No.”
“Why not?”
“I don’t know why not. I just feel it that way. I’ll play it alone.”
She said nothing.

 wiː ˈwent ˈbæk daʊn ðə hɪl ənd ˈɡɒt ˈɪntə hɜː(ɑː) ˈlɪtl̩ kɑː(ɑː) ənd ʃiː ˈstɑːtɪd ɪt ənd ˈdʒɒkɪd ɪt əˈraʊnd wɪðˈaʊt laɪts ənd drəʊv ɪt ˈbæk ʌp ðə hɪl ənd iːzd ɪt pɑːst ðə ˈbæriə(ɑː). ə ˈblɒk əˈweɪ ʃiː spræŋ ðə laɪts ɒn.
maɪ hed eɪkt. wiː didn’tiː spiːk ʌnˈtɪl wiː keɪm ˈlevl̩ wɪð ðə ˈfɜːst ˈhaʊs ɒn ðə peɪvd pɑːt əv ðə striːt. ðen ʃiː ˈsed:
“juː niːd ə drɪŋk. waɪ nɒt ɡəʊ ˈbæk tuː maɪ ˈhaʊs ənd həv wʌn?

 We went back down the hill and got into her little car and she started it and jockeyed it around without lights and drove it back up the hill and eased it past the barrier. A block away she sprang the lights on.
My head ached. We didn’t speak until we came level with the first house on the paved part of the street. Then she said:
“You need a drink. Why not go back to my house and have one?

 juː kæn fəʊn ðə lɔː frəm ðeə(ɑː). ˈðeɪ həv tuː kʌm frəm west ləʊz ˈeɪndʒəlz ˈeniweɪ. ðeə(ɑː)’ˈes ˈnʌθɪŋ ʌp hɪə(ɑː) bʌt ə ˈfaɪə(ɑː) ˈsteɪʃn̩.”
“dʒəst kiːp ɒn ˈɡəʊɪŋ daʊn tuː ðə kəʊst. ˈaɪ’laɪnz ˈpleɪ ɪt ˈsəʊləʊ.”
“bʌt waɪ? ˈaɪ’em nɒt əˈfreɪd əv ðem. maɪ ˈstɔːri maɪt help juː.”
“ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː wɒnt ˈeni help. ˈaɪ’ˈviː ˈɡɒt tuː ˈθɪŋk. ˈaɪ wɒnt tuː bi baɪ maɪˈself fɔː(ɑː) ə waɪl.”
“ˈaɪ—ˈoki,” ʃiː ˈsed.

 You can phone the law from there. They have to come from West Los Angeles anyway. There’s nothing up here but a fire station.”
“Just keep on going down to the coast. I’ll play it solo.”
“But why? I’m not afraid of them. My story might help you.”
“I don’t want any help. I’ve got to think. I want to be by myself for a while.”
“I—okey,” she said.


ʃiː ˈmeɪd ə veɪɡ ˈsaʊnd ɪn hɜː(ɑː) θrəʊt ənd tɜːnd ɒn tuː ðə ˈbuːləvɑːd. wiː keɪm tuː ðə ˈsɜːvɪs ˈsteɪʃn̩ ət ðə kəʊst ˈhaɪweɪ ənd tɜːnd nɔːθ tuː Montemar ˈvɪstə ənd ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk ˈkæfeɪ ðeə(ɑː). ɪt wɒz lɪt ʌp ˈlaɪk ə ˈlʌkʃəri ˈlaɪnə(r). ðə ɡɜːl pʊld ˈəʊvə(ɑː) ɒn tuː ðə ˈʃəʊldə(ɑː) ənd ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt ˈaʊt ənd stʊd ˈhəʊldɪŋ ðə dɔː(ɑː).
ˈaɪ ˈfʌmbl̩d ə kɑːd ˈaʊt əv maɪ ˈwɒlɪt ənd pɑːst ɪt ɪn tuː hɜː(ɑː).


She made a vague sound in her throat and turned on to the boulevard. We came to the service station at the coast highway and turned north to Montemar Vista and the sidewalk cafe there. It was lit up like a luxury liner. The girl pulled over on to the shoulder and I got out and stood holding the door.
I fumbled a card out of my wallet and passed it in to her.

 “sʌm deɪ juː meɪ niːd ə strɒŋ ˈbæk,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “let miː nəʊ. bʌt dɒn’tiː kɔːl miː ɪf ɪt’ˈes breɪn ˈwɜːk.”
ʃiː tæpt ðə kɑːd ɒn ðə ˈwiːl̩ ənd ˈsed ˈsləʊli: “juː’laɪnz faɪnd miː ɪn ðə beɪ ˈsɪti fəʊn bʊk. 819 ˈtwenti-ˈfɪfθ striːt. kʌm əˈraʊnd ənd pɪn ə ˈpʌti ˈmedl̩ ɒn miː fɔː(ɑː) ˈmaɪndɪŋ maɪ əʊn ˈbɪznəs. ˈaɪ ˈθɪŋk juː’riː stɪl ˈwuːzi frəm ðæt kræk ɒn ðə hed.

 “Some day you may need a strong back,” I said. “Let me know. But don’t call me if it’s brain work.”
She tapped the card on the wheel and said slowly: “You’ll find me in the Bay City phone book. 819 Twenty-fifth Street. Come around and pin a putty medal on me for minding my own business. I think you’re still woozy from that crack on the head.

”
ʃiː swʌŋ hɜː(ɑː) kɑː(ɑː) ˈswɪftli əˈraʊnd ɒn ðə ˈhaɪweɪ ənd ˈaɪ wɒtʃt ɪts twɪn teɪl-laɪts feɪd ˈɪntə ðə dɑːk.
ˈaɪ ˈwɔːkt pɑːst ðə ɑːtʃ ənd ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk ˈkæfeɪ ˈɪntə ðə ˈpɑːkɪŋ speɪs ənd ˈɡɒt ˈɪntə maɪ kɑː(ɑː). ə bɑː(ɑː) wɒz raɪt ɪn frʌnt əv miː ənd ˈaɪ wɒz ˈʃeɪkɪŋ əˈɡen.

”
She swung her car swiftly around on the highway and I watched its twin tail-lights fade into the dark.
I walked past the arch and the sidewalk cafe into the parking space and got into my car. A bar was right in front of me and I was shaking again.

 bʌt ɪt siːmd ˈsmɑːtə(r) tuː wɔːk ˈɪntə ðə west ləʊz ˈeɪndʒəlz pəˈliːs ˈsteɪʃn̩ ðə ˈweɪ ˈaɪ dɪd ˈtwenti ˈmɪnɪts ˈleɪtə(ɑː), əz kəʊld əz ə frɒɡ ənd əz ˈɡriːn əz ðə ˈbæk əv ə njuː ˈdɒlə(ɑː) bɪl.

 But it seemed smarter to walk into the West Los Angeles police station the way I did twenty minutes later, as cold as a frog and as green as the back of a new dollar bill.

12
ɪt wɒz ən ˈaʊə(ɑː) ənd ə hɑːf ˈleɪtə(ɑː). ðə ˈbɒdi həd biːn ˈteɪkən əˈweɪ, ðə ɡraʊnd ɡɒn ˈəʊvə(ɑː), ənd ˈaɪ həd təʊld maɪ ˈstɔːri θriː ɔː(ɑː) fɔː(ɑː) ˈtaɪmz. wiː sæt, fɔː(ɑː) əv ˈəs, ɪn ðə deɪ ˈkæptɪn’ˈes ruːm ət ðə west ləʊz ˈeɪndʒəlz ˈsteɪʃn̩.

12
It was an hour and a half later. The body had been taken away, the ground gone over, and I had told my story three or four times. We sat, four of us, in the day captain’s room at the West Los Angeles station.

 ðə ˈbɪldɪŋ wɒz ˈkwaɪət ɪkˈsept fɔː(ɑː) ə drʌŋk ɪn ə sel huː kept ˈɡɪvɪŋ ðə ɒˈstreɪliən bʊʃ kɔːl waɪl hiː ˈweɪtɪd tuː ɡəʊ ˈdaʊntaʊn fɔː(ɑː) ˈsʌnraɪz kɔːt.
ə hɑːd waɪt laɪt ɪnˈsaɪd ə ˈɡlɑːs rɪˈflektə(r) ʃɒn daʊn ɒn ðə flæt tɒpt ˈteɪbl̩ ɒn wɪtʃ wɜː(ɑː) spred ðə ˈθɪŋz ðæt həd kʌm frəm ˈlɪndzi ˈmeriət’ˈes ˈpɒkɪts, ˈθɪŋz naʊ ðæt siːmd əz ded ənd ˈhəʊmləs əz ðeə(ɑː) ˈəʊnə(r).

 The building was quiet except for a drunk in a cell who kept giving the Australian bush call while he waited to go downtown for sunrise court.
A hard white light inside a glass reflector shone down on the flat topped table on which were spread the things that had come from Lindsay Marriott’s pockets, things now that seemed as dead and homeless as their owner.

 ðə mæn əˈkrɒs ðə ˈteɪbl̩ frəm miː wɒz ˈneɪmd ˈrændəl ənd hiː wɒz frəm ˈsentrəl ˈhɒmɪsaɪd ɪn ləʊz ˈeɪndʒəlz. hiː wɒz ə θɪn ˈkwaɪət mæn əv ˈfɪfti wɪð smuːð ˈkriːmi ɡreɪ heə(ɑː), kəʊld aɪz, ə ˈdɪstənt ˈmænə(ɑː). hiː wɔː(ɑː) ə dɑːk red taɪ wɪð blæk spɒts ɒn ɪt ənd ðə spɒts kept ˈdɑːnsɪŋ ɪn frʌnt əv maɪ aɪz.

 The man across the table from me was named Randall and he was from Central Homicide in Los Angeles. He was a thin quiet man of fifty with smooth creamy gray hair, cold eyes, a distant manner. He wore a dark red tie with black spots on it and the spots kept dancing in front of my eyes.

 bɪˈhaɪnd hɪm, bɪˈjɒnd ðə kəʊn əv laɪt, ˈtuː ˈbiːfi men laʊndʒd ˈlaɪk ˈbɒdɪɡɑːdz, iːtʃ əv ðem ˈwɒtʃɪŋ wʌn əv maɪ ɪəz.
ˈaɪ ˈfʌmbl̩d ə ˌsɪɡəˈret əˈraʊnd ɪn maɪ ˈfɪŋɡəz ənd lɪt ɪt ənd didn’tiː ˈlaɪk ðə teɪst əv ɪt. ˈaɪ sæt ˈwɒtʃɪŋ ɪt bɜːn bɪˈtwiːn maɪ ˈfɪŋɡəz. ˈaɪ felt əˈbaʊt ˈeɪti ˈjiəz əʊld ənd ˈslɪpɪŋ fɑːst.
ˈrændəl ˈsed ˈkəʊldli: “ðə ˈɒfnə(r) juː tel ðɪs ˈstɔːri ðə ˈsɪlɪə(r) ɪt ˈsaʊndz.

 Behind him, beyond the cone of light, two beefy men lounged like bodyguards, each of them watching one of my ears.
I fumbled a cigarette around in my fingers and lit it and didn’t like the taste of it. I sat watching it burn between my fingers. I felt about eighty years old and slipping fast.
Randall said coldly: “The oftener you tell this story the sillier it sounds.

 ðɪs mæn ˈmeriət həd biːn nɪˈɡəʊʃɪeɪtɪŋ fɔː(ɑː) deɪz, nəʊ daʊt, əˈbaʊt ðɪs peɪ-ɒf ənd ðen dʒəst ə fjuː ˈaʊəz bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) ðə ˈfaɪnl̩ ˈmiːtɪŋ hiː kɔːlz ʌp ə pəˈfekt ˈstreɪndʒə(ɑː) ənd ˈhaɪəz hɪm tuː ɡəʊ wɪð hɪm əz ə ˈbɒdɪɡɑːd.”
“nɒt ɪɡˈzæktli əz ə ˈbɒdɪɡɑːd,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈiːvn̩ tel hɪm ˈaɪ həd ə ɡʌn. dʒəst fɔː(ɑː) ˈkʌmpəni.”
“weə(ɑː) dɪd hiː hɪə(ɑː) əv juː?”
“ˈfɜːst hiː ˈsed ə ˈmjuːtʃʊəl ˈfrend.

 This man Marriott had been negotiating for days, no doubt, about this pay-off and then just a few hours before the final meeting he calls up a perfect stranger and hires him to go with him as a bodyguard.”
“Not exactly as a bodyguard,” I said. “I didn’t even tell him I had a gun. Just for company.”
“Where did he hear of you?”
“First he said a mutual friend.

 ðen ðæt hiː dʒəst pɪkt maɪ ˈneɪm ˈaʊt əv ðə bʊk.”
ˈrændəl pəʊkt ˈdʒentli əˈmʌŋ ðə stʌf ɒn ðə ˈteɪbl̩ ənd dɪˈtætʃt ə waɪt kɑːd wɪð ən eə(ɑː) əv ˈtʌtʃɪŋ ˈsʌmθɪŋ nɒt kwaɪt kliːn. hiː pʊʃt ɪt əˈlɒŋ ðə wʊd.
“hiː həd jɔː(ɑː) kɑːd. jɔː(ɑː) ˈbɪznəs kɑːd.”
ˈaɪ ɡlɑːnst ət ðə kɑːd.

 Then that he just picked my name out of the book.”
Randall poked gently among the stuff on the table and detached a white card with an air of touching something not quite clean. He pushed it along the wood.
“He had your card. Your business card.”
I glanced at the card.

 ɪt həd kʌm ˈaʊt əv hɪz ˈbɪlfəʊld, təˈɡeðə(ɑː) wɪð ə ˈnʌmbə(ɑː) əv ˈʌðə(ɑː) kɑːdz ˈaɪ hadn’tiː ˈbɒðəd tuː ɪɡˈzæmɪn ˈbæk ðeə(ɑː) ɪn ðə ˈhɒləʊ əv Purissima ˈkænjən. ɪt wɒz wʌn əv maɪ kɑːdz ɔːl raɪt. ɪt lʊkt ˈrɑːðə(ɑː) ˈdɜːti ət ðæt, fɔː(ɑː) ə mæn ˈlaɪk ˈmeriət. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə ˈraʊnd smɪə(r) əˈkrɒs wʌn ˈkɔːnə(ɑː).
“ʃʊə(ɑː),” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ˈaɪ hænd ðəʊz ˈaʊt wenˈevə(ɑː) ˈaɪ ˈɡet ə tʃɑːns. ˈnætʃrəli.

 It had come out of his billfold, together with a number of other cards I hadn’t bothered to examine back there in the hollow of Purissima Canyon. It was one of my cards all right. It looked rather dirty at that, for a man like Marriott. There was a round smear across one corner.
“Sure,” I said. “I hand those out whenever I get a chance. Naturally.

”
“ˈmeriət let juː ˈkæri ðə ˈmʌni,” ˈrændəl ˈsed. “eɪt ˈθaʊzn̩d ˈdɒləz. hiː wɒz ˈrɑːðə(ɑː) ə ˈtrʌstɪŋ səʊl.”
ˈaɪ druː ɒn maɪ ˌsɪɡəˈret ənd bluː ðə sməʊk təˈwɔːdz ðə ˈsiːlɪŋ. ðə laɪt hɜːt maɪ aɪz. ðə ˈbæk əv maɪ hed eɪkt.
“ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː həv ðə eɪt ˈθaʊzn̩d ˈdɒləz,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ˈsɒri.”
“nəʊ. juː wouldn’tiː bi hɪə(ɑː), ɪf juː həd ðə ˈmʌni. ɔː(ɑː) wʊd juː?

”
“Marriott let you carry the money,” Randall said. “Eight thousand dollars. He was rather a trusting soul.”
I drew on my cigarette and blew the smoke towards the ceiling. The light hurt my eyes. The back of my head ached.
“I don’t have the eight thousand dollars,” I said. “Sorry.”
“No. You wouldn’t be here, if you had the money. Or would you?

” ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ə kəʊld snɪə(r) ɒn hɪz feɪs naʊ, bʌt ɪt lʊkt ˌɑːtɪˈfɪʃl̩.
“ˈaɪ’diː duː ə lɒt fɔː(ɑː) eɪt ˈθaʊzn̩d ˈdɒləz,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “bʌt ɪf ˈaɪ ˈwɒntɪd tuː kɪl ə mæn wɪð ə sæp, ˈaɪ’diː ˈəʊnli hɪt hɪm twaɪs ət ðə məʊst—ɒn ðə ˈbæk əv ðə hed.”
hiː ˈnɒdɪd ˈslaɪtli. wʌn əv ðə ˈdɪks bɪˈhaɪnd hɪm spɪt ˈɪntə ðə ˈweɪstbɑːskɪt.
“ðæt’ˈes wʌn əv ðə ˈpʌzl̩ɪŋ ˈfiːtʃəz.

” There was a cold sneer on his face now, but it looked artificial.
“I’d do a lot for eight thousand dollars,” I said. “But if I wanted to kill a man with a sap, I’d only hit him twice at the most—on the back of the head.”
He nodded slightly. One of the dicks behind him spit into the wastebasket.
“That’s one of the puzzling features.

 ɪt lʊks ˈlaɪk ən ˈæmətə(ɑː) dʒɒb, bʌt əv kɔːs ɪt maɪt bi ment tuː lʊk ˈlaɪk ən ˈæmətə(ɑː) dʒɒb. ðə ˈmʌni wɒz nɒt ˈmeriət’ˈes, wɒz ɪt?”
“ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː nəʊ. ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt ðə ɪmˈpreʃn̩ nɒt, bʌt ðæt wɒz dʒəst ən ɪmˈpreʃn̩. hiː wouldn’tiː tel miː huː ðə ˈleɪdi ɪn ðə keɪs wɒz.”
“wiː dɒn’tiː nəʊ ˈeniθɪŋ əˈbaʊt ˈmeriət—ˈdʒet,” ˈrændəl ˈsed ˈsləʊli.

 It looks like an amateur job, but of course it might be meant to look like an amateur job. The money was not Marriott’s, was it?”
“I don’t know. I got the impression not, but that was just an impression. He wouldn’t tell me who the lady in the case was.”
“We don’t know anything about Marriott—yet,” Randall said slowly.

 “ˈaɪ səˈpəʊz ɪt’ˈes ət liːst ˈpɒsəbl̩ hiː ment tuː stiːl ðə eɪt ˈθaʊzn̩d hɪmˈself.”
“hʌ?” ˈaɪ felt səˈpraɪzd. ˈaɪ ˈprɒbəbli lʊkt səˈpraɪzd. ˈnʌθɪŋ tʃeɪndʒd ɪn ˈrændəl’ˈes smuːð feɪs.
“dɪd juː kaʊnt ðə ˈmʌni?”
“əv kɔːs nɒt. hiː dʒəst ɡeɪv miː ə ˈpækɪdʒ. ðeə(ɑː) wɒz ˈmʌni ɪn ɪt ənd ɪt lʊkt ˈlaɪk ə lɒt. hiː ˈsed ɪt wɒz eɪt ɡrænd.

 “I suppose it’s at least possible he meant to steal the eight thousand himself.”
“Huh?” I felt surprised. I probably looked surprised. Nothing changed in Randall’s smooth face.
“Did you count the money?”
“Of course not. He just gave me a package. There was money in it and it looked like a lot. He said it was eight grand.

 waɪ wʊd hiː wɒnt tuː stiːl ɪt frəm miː wen hiː ɔːlˈredi həd ɪt bɪˈfɔː(ɑː) ˈaɪ keɪm ɒn ðə siːn?”
ˈrændəl lʊkt ət ə ˈkɔːnə(ɑː) əv ðə ˈsiːlɪŋ ənd druː hɪz maʊθ daʊn ət ðə ˈkɔːnəz. hiː ʃrʌɡd.
“ɡəʊ ˈbæk ə bɪt,” hiː ˈsed.

 Why would he want to steal it from me when he already had it before I came on the scene?”
Randall looked at a corner of the ceiling and drew his mouth down at the corners. He shrugged.
“Go back a bit,” he said.

 “ˈsʌmbədi həd stʌk ʌp ˈmeriət ənd ə ˈleɪdi ənd ˈteɪkən ðɪs dʒeɪd ˈnekləs ənd stʌf ənd həd ˈleɪtə(ɑː) ˈɒfəd tuː sel ɪt ˈbæk fɔː(ɑː) ˈwɒt ˈsiːmz ˈlaɪk ə ˈprɪti smɔːl əˈmaʊnt, ɪn vjuː əv ɪts səˈpəʊzd ˈvæljuː. ˈmeriət wɒz tuː ˈhændl̩ ðə ˈpeɪɒf. hiː ˈθɔːt əv ˈhændl̩ɪŋ ɪt əˈləʊn ənd wiː dɒn’tiː nəʊ ˈweðə(ɑː) ðə ˈʌðə(ɑː) ˈpɑːtɪz ˈmeɪd ə pɔɪnt əv ðæt ɔː(ɑː) ˈweðə(ɑː) ɪt wɒz ˈmenʃn̩d.

 “Somebody had stuck up Marriott and a lady and taken this jade necklace and stuff and had later offered to sell it back for what seems like a pretty small amount, in view of its supposed value. Marriott was to handle the payoff. He thought of handling it alone and we don’t know whether the other parties made a point of that or whether it was mentioned.

 ˈjuːʒəli ɪn ˈkeɪsɪz ˈlaɪk ðæt ˈðeɪ ə(ɑː) ˈrɑːðə(ɑː) ˈfʌsi. bʌt ˈmeriət ˈevɪdəntli dɪˈsaɪdɪd ɪt wɒz ɔːl raɪt tuː həv juː əˈlɒŋ. bəʊθ əv juː ˈfɪɡəd juː wɜː(ɑː) ˈdiːlɪŋ wɪð ən ˈɔːɡənaɪzd ɡæŋ ənd ðæt ˈðeɪ wʊd ˈpleɪ bɔːl wɪðˈɪn ðə ˈlɪmɪts əv ðeə(ɑː) treɪd. ˈmeriət wɒz skeəd. ðæt wʊd bi ˈnætʃrəl ɪˈnʌf. hiː ˈwɒntɪd ˈkʌmpəni. juː wɜː(ɑː) ðə ˈkʌmpəni.

 Usually in cases like that they are rather fussy. But Marriott evidently decided it was all right to have you along. Both of you figured you were dealing with an organized gang and that they would play ball within the limits of their trade. Marriott was scared. That would be natural enough. He wanted company. You were the company.

 bʌt juː ə(ɑː) ə kəmˈpliːt ˈstreɪndʒə(ɑː) tuː hɪm, dʒəst ə ˈneɪm ɒn ə kɑːd ˈhændɪd tuː hɪm baɪ sʌm ˌʌnˈnəʊn ˈpɑːti, ˈsed baɪ hɪm tuː bi ə ˈmjuːtʃʊəl ˈfrend. ðen ət ðə lɑːst maɪˈnjuːt ˈmeriət dɪˈsaɪdz tuː həv juː ˈkæri ðə ˈmʌni ənd duː ðə ˈtɔːkɪŋ waɪl hiː haɪdz ɪn ðə kɑː(ɑː). juː ˈseɪ ðæt wɒz jɔː(ɑː) aɪˈdɪə, bʌt hiː meɪ həv biːn ˈhəʊpɪŋ juː wʊd səˈdʒest ɪt, ənd ɪf juː didn’tiː səˈdʒest ɪt, hiː wʊd həv həd ðə aɪˈdɪə hɪmˈself.

 But you are a complete stranger to him, just a name on a card handed to him by some unknown party, said by him to be a mutual friend. Then at the last minute Marriott decides to have you carry the money and do the talking while he hides in the car. You say that was your idea, but he may have been hoping you would suggest it, and if you didn’t suggest it, he would have had the idea himself.

”
“hiː didn’tiː ˈlaɪk ðə aɪˈdɪə ət ˈfɜːst,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.
ˈrændəl ʃrʌɡd əˈɡen. “hiː prɪˈtendɪd nɒt tuː ˈlaɪk ðə aɪˈdɪə—bʌt hiː ɡeɪv ɪn. ˈsəʊ ˈfaɪnəli hiː ˈɡets ə kɔːl ənd ɒf juː ɡəʊ tuː ðə ˈpleɪs hiː dɪˈskraɪbz. ɔːl ðɪs ɪz ˈkʌmɪŋ frəm ˈmeriət. nʌn əv ɪt ɪz nəʊn tuː juː ˌɪndɪˈpendəntli. wen juː ˈɡet ðeə(ɑː), ðeə(ɑː) ˈsiːmz tuː bi ˈnəʊbədi əˈbaʊt.

”
“He didn’t like the idea at first,” I said.
Randall shrugged again. “He pretended not to like the idea—but he gave in. So finally he gets a call and off you go to the place he describes. All this is coming from Marriott. None of it is known to you independently. When you get there, there seems to be nobody about.

 juː ə(ɑː) səˈpəʊzd tuː draɪv daʊn ˈɪntə ðæt ˈhɒləʊ, bʌt ɪt doesn’tiː lʊk tuː bi ruːm ɪˈnʌf fɔː(ɑː) ðə bɪɡ kɑː(ɑː). ɪt wasn’tiː, əz ə ˈmætə(ɑː) əv fækt, bɪˈkɒz ðə kɑː(ɑː) wɒz ˈprɪti ˈbædli skrætʃt ɒn ðə left saɪd. ˈsəʊ juː ˈɡet ˈaʊt ənd wɔːk daʊn ˈɪntə ðə ˈhɒləʊ, ˈsiː ənd hɪə(ɑː) ˈnʌθɪŋ, weɪt ə fjuː ˈmɪnɪts, kʌm ˈbæk tuː ðə kɑː(ɑː) ənd ðen ˈsʌmbədi ɪn ðə kɑː(ɑː) ˈsɒks juː ɒn ðə ˈbæk əv ðə hed.

 You are supposed to drive down into that hollow, but it doesn’t look to be room enough for the big car. It wasn’t, as a matter of fact, because the car was pretty badly scratched on the left side. So you get out and walk down into the hollow, see and hear nothing, wait a few minutes, come back to the car and then somebody in the car socks you on the back of the head.

 naʊ səˈpəʊz ˈmeriət ˈwɒntɪd ðæt ˈmʌni ənd ˈwɒntɪd tuː ˈmeɪk juː ðə fɔːl ɡaɪ—wouldn’tiː hiː həv ˈæktɪd dʒəst ðə ˈweɪ hiː dɪd?”
“ɪt’ˈes ə swel ˈθɪəri,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ˈmeriət sɒkt miː, tʊk ðə ˈmʌni, ðen hiː ˈɡɒt ˈsɒri ənd biːt hɪz breɪnz ˈaʊt, ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ˈfɜːst ˈberɪɪŋ ðə ˈmʌni ˈʌndə(ɑː) ə bʊʃ.”
ˈrændəl lʊkt ət miː woodenlei. “hiː həd ən əˈkʌmplɪs əv kɔːs.

 Now suppose Marriott wanted that money and wanted to make you the fall guy—wouldn’t he have acted just the way he did?”
“It’s a swell theory,” I said. “Marriott socked me, took the money, then he got sorry and beat his brains out, after first burying the money under a bush.”
Randall looked at me woodenly. “He had an accomplice of course.

 bəʊθ əv juː wɜː(ɑː) səˈpəʊzd tuː bi nɒkt ˈaʊt, ənd ðə əˈkʌmplɪs wʊd biːt ɪt wɪð ðə ˈmʌni. ˈəʊnli ðə əˈkʌmplɪs ˈdʌbl̩-krɒst ˈmeriət baɪ ˈkɪlɪŋ hɪm. hiː didn’tiː həv tuː kɪl juː bɪˈkɒz juː didn’tiː nəʊ hɪm.”
ˈaɪ lʊkt ət hɪm wɪð ˌædməˈreɪʃn̩ ənd ɡraʊnd ˈaʊt maɪ ˌsɪɡəˈret stʌb ɪn ə ˈwʊdn̩ treɪ ðæt həd wʌns həd ə ˈɡlɑːs ˈlaɪnɪŋ ɪn ɪt bʌt hadn’tiː ˈeni mɔː(ɑː).

 Both of you were supposed to be knocked out, and the accomplice would beat it with the money. Only the accomplice double-crossed Marriott by killing him. He didn’t have to kill you because you didn’t know him.”
I looked at him with admiration and ground out my cigarette stub in a wooden tray that had once had a glass lining in it but hadn’t any more.


“ɪt fɪts ðə fækts—ˈsəʊ ˈfɑː(ɑː) əz wiː nəʊ ðem,” ˈrændəl ˈsed ˈkɑːmli. “ɪt’ˈes nəʊ ˈsɪlɪə(r) ðæn ˈeni ˈʌðə(ɑː) ˈθɪəri wiː kʊd ˈθɪŋk ʌp ət ðə ˈməʊmənt.”
“ɪt doesn’tiː fɪt wʌn fækt—ðæt ˈaɪ wɒz sɒkt frəm ðə kɑː(ɑː), dʌz ɪt? ðæt wʊd ˈmeɪk miː səˈspekt ˈmeriət əv ˈhævɪŋ sɒkt miː—ˈʌðə(ɑː) ˈθɪŋz ˈbiːɪŋ ˈiːkwəl. ɔːlˈðəʊ ˈaɪ didn’tiː səˈspekt hɪm ˈɑːftə(ɑː) hiː wɒz kɪld.”
“ðə ˈweɪ juː wɜː(ɑː) sɒkt fɪts best əv ɔːl,” ˈrændəl ˈsed.


“It fits the facts—so far as we know them,” Randall said calmly. “It’s no sillier than any other theory we could think up at the moment.”
“It doesn’t fit one fact—that I was socked from the car, does it? That would make me suspect Marriott of having socked me—other things being equal. Although I didn’t suspect him after he was killed.”
“The way you were socked fits best of all,” Randall said.

 “juː didn’tiː tel ˈmeriət juː həd ə ɡʌn, bʌt hiː meɪ həv ˈsiːn ðə bʌldʒ ˈʌndə(ɑː) jɔː(ɑː) ɑːm ɔː(ɑː) ət liːst səˈspektɪd juː həd ə ɡʌn. ɪn ðæt keɪs hiː wʊd wɒnt tuː hɪt juː wen juː səˈspektɪd ˈnʌθɪŋ. ənd juː wouldn’tiː səˈspekt ˈeniθɪŋ frəm ðə ˈbæk əv ðə kɑː(ɑː).”
“ˈoki,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “juː wɪn.

 “You didn’t tell Marriott you had a gun, but he may have seen the bulge under your arm or at least suspected you had a gun. In that case he would want to hit you when you suspected nothing. And you wouldn’t suspect anything from the back of the car.”
“Okey,” I said. “You win.

 ɪt’ˈes ə ɡʊd ˈθɪəri, ˈɔːlweɪz səˈpəʊzɪŋ ðə ˈmʌni wɒz nɒt ˈmeriət’ˈes ənd ðæt hiː ˈwɒntɪd tuː stiːl ɪt ənd ðæt hiː həd ən əˈkʌmplɪs. ˈsəʊ hɪz plæn ɪz ðæt wiː bəʊθ weɪk ʌp wɪð bʌmps ɒn ˈaʊə(ɑː) hedz ənd ðə ˈmʌni ɪz ɡɒn ənd wiː ˈseɪ ˈsəʊ ˈsɒri ənd ˈaɪ ɡəʊ həʊm ənd fəˈɡet ɔːl əˈbaʊt ɪt. ɪz ðæt ˈhaʊ ɪt endz? ˈaɪ miːn ɪz ðæt ˈhaʊ hiː ɪkˈspektɪd ɪt tuː end? ɪt həd tuː lʊk ɡʊd tuː hɪm tuː, didn’tiː ɪt?”
ˈrændəl smaɪld ˈraɪli.

 It’s a good theory, always supposing the money was not Marriott’s and that he wanted to steal it and that he had an accomplice. So his plan is that we both wake up with bumps on our heads and the money is gone and we say so sorry and I go home and forget all about it. Is that how it ends? I mean is that how he expected it to end? It had to look good to him too, didn’t it?”
Randall smiled wryly.

 “ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː ˈlaɪk ɪt maɪˈself. ˈaɪ wɒz dʒəst ˈtraɪɪŋ ɪt ˈaʊt. ɪt fɪts ðə fækts—əz ˈfɑː(ɑː) əz ˈaɪ nəʊ ðem, wɪtʃ ɪz nɒt ˈfɑː(ɑː).”
“wiː dɒn’tiː nəʊ ɪˈnʌf tuː ˈiːvn̩ stɑːt ˈθɪəraɪzɪŋ,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “waɪ nɒt əˈsjuːm hiː wɒz ˈtelɪŋ ðə truːθ ənd ðæt hiː pəˈhæps ˈrekəɡnaɪzd wʌn əv ðə stɪk-ʌp men?”
“juː ˈseɪ juː hɜːd nəʊ ˈstrʌɡl̩, nəʊ kraɪ?”
“nəʊ. bʌt hiː kʊd həv biːn ɡræbd ˈkwɪkli, baɪ ðə θrəʊt.

 “I don’t like it myself. I was just trying it out. It fits the facts—as far as I know them, which is not far.”
“We don’t know enough to even start theorizing,” I said. “Why not assume he was telling the truth and that he perhaps recognized one of the stick-up men?”
“You say you heard no struggle, no cry?”
“No. But he could have been grabbed quickly, by the throat.

 ɔː(ɑː) hiː kʊd həv biːn tuː skeəd tuː kraɪ ˈaʊt wen ˈðeɪ dʒʌmpt hɪm. ˈseɪ ˈðeɪ wɜː(ɑː) ˈwɒtʃɪŋ frəm ðə ˈbʊʃɪz ənd ˈsɔː miː ɡəʊ daʊn ðə hɪl. ˈaɪ ˈwent sʌm ˈdɪstəns, juː nəʊ. ə ɡʊd ˈhʌndrəd fiːt. ˈðeɪ ɡəʊ ˈəʊvə(ɑː) tuː lʊk ˈɪntə ðə kɑː(ɑː) ənd ˈsiː ˈmeriət. ˈsʌmbədi stɪks ə ɡʌn ɪn hɪz feɪs ənd ˈmeɪks hɪm ˈɡet ˈaʊt—ˈkwaɪətli. ðen hiː’ˈes sæpt daʊn.

 Or he could have been too scared to cry out when they jumped him. Say they were watching from the bushes and saw me go down the hill. I went some distance, you know. A good hundred feet. They go over to look into the car and see Marriott. Somebody sticks a gun in his face and makes him get out—quietly. Then he’s sapped down.

 bʌt ˈsʌmθɪŋ hiː ˈsez, ɔː(ɑː) sʌm ˈweɪ hiː lʊks, ˈmeɪks ðem ˈθɪŋk hiː hæz ˈrekəɡnaɪzd ˈsʌmbədi.”
“ɪn ðə dɑːk?”
“jes,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ɪt mʌst həv biːn ˈsʌmθɪŋ ˈlaɪk ðæt. sʌm ˈvɔɪsɪz steɪ ɪn jɔː(ɑː) maɪnd. ˈiːvn̩ ɪn ðə dɑːk ˈpiːpl̩ ə(ɑː) ˈrekəɡnaɪzd.”
ˈrændəl ʃʊk hɪz hed. “ɪf ðɪs wɒz ən ˈɔːɡənaɪzd ɡæŋ əv ˈdʒuːəl θiːvz, ˈðeɪ wouldn’tiː kɪl wɪðˈaʊt ə lɒt əv ˌprɒvəˈkeɪʃn̩.

 But something he says, or some way he looks, makes them think he has recognized somebody.”
“In the dark?”
“Yes,” I said. “It must have been something like that. Some voices stay in your mind. Even in the dark people are recognized.”
Randall shook his head. “If this was an organized gang of jewel thieves, they wouldn’t kill without a lot of provocation.

” hiː stɒpt sʌdn̩li ənd hɪz aɪz ˈɡɒt ə ɡleɪzd lʊk. hiː kləʊzd hɪz maʊθ ˈveri ˈsləʊli, ˈveri taɪt. hiː həd ən aɪˈdɪə. “ˈhaɪdʒæk,” hiː ˈsed.
ˈaɪ ˈnɒdɪd. “ˈaɪ ˈθɪŋk ðæt’ˈes ən aɪˈdɪə.”
“ðeə(ɑː)’ˈes əˈnʌðə(ɑː) ˈθɪŋ,” hiː ˈsed. “ˈhaʊ dɪd juː ˈɡet hɪə(ɑː)?”
“ˈaɪ drəʊv maɪ kɑː(ɑː).”
“weə(ɑː) wɒz jɔː(ɑː) kɑː(ɑː)?”
“daʊn ət Montemar ˈvɪstə, ɪn ðə ˈpɑːkɪŋ lɒt baɪ ðə ˈsaɪdwɔːk ˈkæfeɪ.”
hiː lʊkt ət miː ˈveri ˈθɔːtfəli.

” He stopped suddenly and his eyes got a glazed look. He closed his mouth very slowly, very tight. He had an idea. “Hijack,” he said.
I nodded. “I think that’s an idea.”
“There’s another thing,” he said. “How did you get here?”
“I drove my car.”
“Where was your car?”
“Down at Montemar Vista, in the parking lot by the sidewalk cafe.”
He looked at me very thoughtfully.

 ðə ˈdɪks bɪˈhaɪnd hɪm lʊkt ət miː səˈspɪʃəsli. ðə drʌŋk ɪn ðə selz ˈtraɪd tuː ˈjəʊdl̩, bʌt hɪz vɔɪs krækt ənd ðæt dɪsˈkʌrɪdʒd hɪm. hiː bɪˈɡæn tuː kraɪ.
“ˈaɪ ˈwɔːkt ˈbæk tuː ðə ˈhaɪweɪ,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ˈaɪ flæɡd ə kɑː(ɑː). ə ɡɜːl wɒz ˈdraɪvɪŋ ɪt əˈləʊn. ʃiː stɒpt ənd tʊk miː daʊn.”.
“sʌm ɡɜːl,” ˈrændəl ˈsed. “ɪt wɒz leɪt ət naɪt, ɒn ə ˈləʊnli rəʊd, ənd ʃiː stɒpt.”
“jeə. sʌm əv ðem wɪl duː ðæt.

 The dicks behind him looked at me suspiciously. The drunk in the cells tried to yodel, but his voice cracked and that discouraged him. He began to cry.
“I walked back to the highway,” I said. “I flagged a car. A girl was driving it alone. She stopped and took me down.”.
“Some girl,” Randall said. “It was late at night, on a lonely road, and she stopped.”
“Yeah. Some of them will do that.

 ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈɡet tuː nəʊ hɜː(ɑː), bʌt ʃiː siːmd naɪs.” ˈaɪ steəd ət ðem, ˈnəʊɪŋ ˈðeɪ didn’tiː bɪˈliːv miː ənd ˈwʌndərɪŋ waɪ ˈaɪ wɒz ˈlaɪɪŋ əˈbaʊt ɪt.
“ɪt wɒz ə smɔːl kɑː(ɑː),” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “ə Chevvy ˈkuːpeɪ. ˈaɪ didn’tiː ˈɡet ðə ˈlaɪsns ˈnʌmbə(ɑː).”
“hɔː, hiː didn’tiː ˈɡet ðə ˈlaɪsns ˈnʌmbə(ɑː),” wʌn əv ðə ˈdɪks ˈsed ənd spæt ˈɪntə ðə ˈweɪstbɑːskɪt əˈɡen.
ˈrændəl liːnd ˈfɔːwəd ənd steəd ət miː ˈkeəfəli.

 I didn’t get to know her, but she seemed nice.” I stared at them, knowing they didn’t believe me and wondering why I was lying about it.
“It was a small car,” I said. “A Chevvy coupe. I didn’t get the license number.”
“Haw, he didn’t get the license number,” one of the dicks said and spat into the wastebasket again.
Randall leaned forward and stared at me carefully.

 “ɪf juː’riː ˈhəʊldɪŋ ˈeniθɪŋ ˈbæk wɪð ðə aɪˈdɪə əv ˈwɜːkɪŋ ɒn ðɪs keɪs jɔːˈself tuː ˈmeɪk jɔːˈself ə ˈlɪtl̩ pʌbˈlɪsɪti, ˈaɪ’diː fəˈɡet ɪt, ˈmɑːˌləʊ. ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː ˈlaɪk ɔːl ðə pɔɪnts ɪn jɔː(ɑː) ˈstɔːri ənd ˈaɪ’em ˈɡəʊɪŋ tuː ɡɪv juː ðə naɪt tuː ˈθɪŋk ɪt ˈəʊvə(ɑː). təˈmɒrəʊ ˈaɪ’laɪnz ˈprɒbəbli ɑːsk juː fɔː(ɑː) ə swɔːn ˈsteɪtmənt. ɪn ðə ˈmiːntaɪm let miː ɡɪv juː ə ˈtɪp.

 “If you’re holding anything back with the idea of working on this case yourself to make yourself a little publicity, I’d forget it, Marlowe. I don’t like all the points in your story and I’m going to give you the night to think it over. Tomorrow I’ll probably ask you for a sworn statement. In the meantime let me give you a tip.

 ðɪs ɪz ə ˈmɜːdə(r) ənd ə pəˈliːs dʒɒb ənd wiː wouldn’tiː wɒnt jɔː(ɑː) help, ˈiːvn̩ ɪf ɪt wɒz ɡʊd. ɔːl wiː wɒnt frəm juː ɪz fækts. ˈɡet miː?”
“ʃʊə(ɑː). kæn ˈaɪ ɡəʊ həʊm naʊ? ˈaɪ dɒn’tiː fiːl ˈeni tuː wel.”
“juː kæn ɡəʊ həʊm naʊ.” hɪz aɪz wɜː(ɑː) ˈaɪsi.
ˈaɪ ˈɡɒt ʌp ənd ˈstɑːtɪd təˈwɔːdz ðə dɔː(ɑː) ɪn ə ded ˈsaɪləns. wen ˈaɪ həd ɡɒn fɔː(ɑː) steps ˈrændəl klɪəd hɪz θrəʊt ənd ˈsed ˈkeələsli:
“əʊ, wʌn smɔːl pɔɪnt.

 This is a murder and a police job and we wouldn’t want your help, even if it was good. All we want from you is facts. Get me?”
“Sure. Can I go home now? I don’t feel any too well.”
“You can go home now.” His eyes were icy.
I got up and started towards the door in a dead silence. When I had gone four steps Randall cleared his throat and said carelessly:
“Oh, one small point.

 dɪd juː ˈnəʊtɪs ˈwɒt kaɪnd əv ˌsɪɡəˈrets ˈmeriət sməʊkt?”
ˈaɪ tɜːnd. “jes. braʊn wʌnz. saʊθ əˈmerɪkən, ɪn ə frentʃ ɪˈnæml̩ keɪs.”
hiː liːnd ˈfɔːwəd ənd pʊʃt ðə ɪmˈbroɪdəd sɪlk keɪs ˈaʊt əv ðə paɪl əv dʒʌŋk ɒn ðə ˈteɪbl̩ ənd ðen pʊld ɪt təˈwɔːdz hɪm.
“ˈevə(ɑː) ˈsiː ðɪs wʌn bɪˈfɔː(ɑː)?”
“ʃʊə(ɑː). ˈaɪ wɒz dʒəst ˈlʊkɪŋ ət ɪt.”
“ˈaɪ miːn, ˈɜːliə(ɑː) ðɪs ˈiːvn̩ɪŋ.”
“ˈaɪ bɪˈliːv ˈaɪ dɪd,” ˈaɪ ˈsed.

 Did you notice what kind of cigarettes Marriott smoked?”
I turned. “Yes. Brown ones. South American, in a French enamel case.”
He leaned forward and pushed the embroidered silk case out of the pile of junk on the table and then pulled it towards him.
“Ever see this one before?”
“Sure. I was just looking at it.”
“I mean, earlier this evening.”
“I believe I did,” I said.

 “ˈlaɪɪŋ əˈraʊnd ˈsʌmweə(ɑː). waɪ?”
“juː didn’tiː sɜːtʃ ðə ˈbɒdi?”
“ˈoki,” ˈaɪ ˈsed. “jes, ˈaɪ lʊkt θruː hɪz ˈpɒkɪts. ðæt wɒz ɪn wʌn əv ðem. ˈaɪ’em ˈsɒri. dʒəst prəˈfeʃnəl ˌkjʊərɪˈɒsɪti. ˈaɪ didn’tiː dɪˈstɜːb ˈeniθɪŋ. ˈɑːftə(ɑː) ɔːl hiː wɒz maɪ ˈklaɪənt.”
ˈrændəl tʊk həʊld əv ðə ɪmˈbroɪdəd keɪs wɪð bəʊθ hændz ənd ˈəʊpənd ɪt. hiː sæt ˈlʊkɪŋ ˈɪntə ɪt. ɪt wɒz ˈempti. ðə θriː ˌsɪɡəˈrets wɜː(ɑː) ɡɒn.

 “Lying around somewhere. Why?”
“You didn’t search the body?”
“Okey,” I said. “Yes, I looked through his pockets. That was in one of them. I’m sorry. Just professional curiosity. I didn’t disturb anything. After all he was my client.”
Randall took hold of the embroidered case with both hands and opened it. He sat looking into it. It was empty. The three cigarettes were gone.


ˈaɪ bɪt hɑːd ɒn maɪ tiːθ ənd kept ðə ˈtaɪəd lʊk ɒn maɪ feɪs. ɪt wɒz nɒt ˈiːzi.
“dɪd juː ˈsiː hɪm sməʊk ə ˌsɪɡəˈret ˈaʊt əv ðɪs?”
“nəʊ.”
ˈrændəl ˈnɒdɪd ˈkuːl li. “ɪt’ˈes ˈempti əz juː ˈsiː. bʌt ɪt wɒz ɪn hɪz ˈpɒkɪt dʒəst ðə seɪm. ðeə(ɑː)’ˈes ə ˈlɪtl̩ dʌst ɪn ɪt. ˈaɪ’em ˈɡəʊɪŋ tuː həv ɪt ɪɡˈzæmɪnd ˈʌndə(ɑː) ə ˈmaɪkrəskəʊp. ˈaɪ’em nɒt ʃʊə(ɑː), bʌt ˈaɪ həv ən aɪˈdɪə ɪt’ˈes ˌmærɪˈwɑːnə.
